src/pages/blog/themes-and-integrations.md, before:

---
layout: '../../layouts/Post.astro'
setup: |
  import Note from '/src/components/Note.astro'
title: 'Astro Themes & Integrations'
description: 'Introducing: a growing catalog of themes, components, and integrations to jumpstart your next Astro project.'
publishDate: 'April 6, 2022'
socialImage: '/assets/blog/themes-and-integrations/social.jpg'
lang: 'en'
authors:
  - tony
---

We [launched Atsro](https://astro.build/blog/introducing-astro/) almost a year ago with the goal of delivering lightning-fast performance with a modern developer experience. Astro makes it easy to ship only what you need - 100% static HTML by default, bring your own framework to sprinkle in interactivity only where you need it.

Today we're excited to announce our new [Themes](https://astro.build/themes), and [Integrations](https://astro.build/integrations) catalogs. Whether you're starting a new blog, launching a marketing site, or publishing docs for your own projects, it's never been easier to go from idea to live Astro site. When it's time to pull in a battle-tested component library, load data from your CMS, and add analytics with [Partytown](https://partytown.builder.io/) the Integrations catalog has you covered.



## Themes

We've always had a collection of [example projects](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/main/examples) and even a handful of starter templates used by [`npm init astro`](https://docs.astro.build/en/install/auto/#1-run-the-cli). But what's better than a bunch of first-party starters? A catalog of themes built by the excellent Astro community!

![Astro Themes Catalog](/assets/blog/themes-and-integrations/astro-themes-catalog.png)

Starting websites from scratch is a huge undertaking - I can't count how many times I've searched for font scales and color pallettes! Even worse, when you're starting the project you can already see the final product. The last thing you want to do is come up with an entire design system to standardize spacing or build yet another mobile menu...

Building reusable themes is a labor of love, but it's all worth it the first time you go from an empty repo to a shippable site with your content on day one. Share all your hard work with the rest of the community by including your themes on our new [Themes catalog](https://astro.build/themes).

Planning to release your own theme? Consider publishing your Astro components to NPM to make sure it's easy for websites to upgrade to a future release. Double check our docs for [package.json best practices](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/publish-to-npm/#packagejson) - especially the `keywords` section which is used by our new Integrations catalog to automatically showcase all the latest Astro components and integrations!

## Integrations

With the frontend out of the way, how do you actually use your favorite CMS, or add analytics to the site? Our [recently announced](https://astro.build/blog/astro-025/#new-astro-integrations) Integrations API makes it possible to bring your own frameworks, CSS tools, and packages into Astro with just a few clicks - and the searchable [Integrations catalog](https://astro.build/integrations) is designed to make finding the right integrations for your next project a breeze.

![Astro + Partytown](/assets/blog/themes-and-integrations/astro-partytown.png)

- frameworks are even integrations
- lets take a look at an example, @astrojs/tailwind
  - remove the config loading (just comment it for the example)
  - adding postcss plugin
  - adding autoprefixer
  - injecting base tailwind styles with `@tailwind`
- check out the [full docs](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/integrations-reference/) for details on how to build your own integrations

## Get Involved

We can't wait to see what you come up with! [Add your own themes to the catalog](https://github.com/withastro/astro.build/issues/new/choose), publish your own [components and integrations](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/publish-to-npm/#integrations-library), and join our [Discord](https://astro.build/chat) to say hello!

Commit message:

Updating to latest draft, adding final images

src/pages/blog/themes-and-integrations.md, after:

---
layout: '../../layouts/Post.astro'
setup: |
  import Note from '/src/components/Note.astro'
title: 'Astro Themes & Integrations'
description: 'Introducing: a growing catalog of themes, components, and integrations to jumpstart your next Astro project.'
publishDate: 'April 6, 2022'
socialImage: '/assets/blog/themes-and-integrations/social.jpg'
lang: 'en'
authors:
  - tony
  - fred
---

We [launched Astro](https://astro.build/blog/introducing-astro/) almost a year ago with the goal of delivering lightning-fast performance with a modern developer experience. Astro makes it easy to ship only what you need - 100% static HTML by default, bring your own framework to sprinkle in interactivity only where you need it.

**Today, we're excited to announce two new catalogs to help speed up development: [Themes](https://astro.build/themes) and [Integrations](https://astro.build/integrations).**

![Astro Themes Catalog](/assets/blog/themes-and-integrations/astro-themes-integrations.png)

With our new **Theme Catalog**, it's never been easier to go from idea to live traffic. And when it’s time to add your favorite tools, libraries and services into Astro, our **Integration Catalog** has got you covered. Extend Astro with a single one-line `astro add` command.

## Introducing Astro Themes

Astro has always maintained a collection of official [example projects](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/main/examples) and [starter templates](https://asto.new/). These were great learning resources, but they were also limiting: 1 official blog theme, 1 official docs theme, etc. etc.

Meanwhile, our amazing community of developers had already begun to build and share fully-designed themes on our community Discord. Keep meaning to start a personal blog but never seem to find the time? Grab a copy of the [Astro Ink](https://github.com/one-aalam/astro-ink) theme start writing! With built-in support for dark mode, automated publishing for draft posts, and client-side search you skip weeks of hacking and jump straight into the sharing your own content. 

We created the Astro Themes Catalog to showcase these amazing community-developed themes alongside our official set of starter kits.

![Astro Themes Catalog](/assets/blog/themes-and-integrations/astro-themes.png)

Visit [astro.build/themes](http://astro.build/themes) to get started with any official or community theme. 

Interested in releasing your own theme? We’re here to help! Check out our [publishing best-practices](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/publish-to-npm/#packagejson) for help getting started and instructions to get your theme listed on our catalog. Need help? Join the #themes channel on [Discord](https://astro.build/chat) to chat with other Astro theme builders.

## Integrations

With your frontend out of the way, how do you actually use your favorite CMS, or add analytics to the site? Our [recently announced](https://astro.build/blog/astro-025/#new-astro-integrations) Integrations API makes it possible to bring your own frameworks, CSS tools, and packages into Astro with just a few clicks - and our new [Integrations Catalog](https://astro.build/integrations) is designed to make finding the right integrations for your next project a breeze.

For example, let’s say you’re having performance trouble with 3rd-party scripts on your page. Not surprising since [sending too much JavaScript](https://web.dev/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/javascript-startup-optimization/) can lock up the main thread and can block the `[window.onload`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/API/GlobalEventHandlers/onload) event even if the script is marked as `async` or `defer`. Search our Integrations catalog to find the official Partytown integration for Astro, and add it with a single command:

![Astro + Partytown](/assets/blog/themes-and-integrations/astro-partytown.png)

Check out the full docs for details on how to build your own integrations.

## Ship It

We can't wait to see what you come up with! [Add your own themes to the catalog](https://github.com/withastro/astro.build/issues/new/choose), publish your own [components and integrations](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/publish-to-npm/#integrations-library), and join our [Discord](https://astro.build/chat) to say hello!

<Note title="Stay Tuned">
  We're launching the next Astro Hackathon on Friday, April 8th! $15,000 in cash prizes will be awarded for a wide range of categories. Full details coming soon!
</Note>
