src/content/themes/hemingway.md, before:

---
title: "Hemingway"
description: "A super minimal template, designed for those who likes clean details on simplicity."
image: "/src/content/themes/_images/hemingway-hero.webp"
images: []
author:
  url: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/"
  name: "Lexington Themes"
  avatar: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/images/favicons/apple-touch-icon.png"
categories:
  - "blog"
  - "other"
demoUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/viewports/hemingway/"
buyUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.lemonsqueezy.com/checkout/buy/ec4dba6c-b32d-4990-9e08-d7cc7024349d"
tools:
  - "tailwind"
  - "alpinejs"
  - "mdx"
---

<p>
  A super minimal template, designed for those who likes clean details on simplicity. Hemingway is made up of fully customizable elements, magazine designed layouts, enabling you to create great magazine or blog website with ease.

An MDX powered blog and includes 27 page examples for sections such as, 3 different landing pages, three different blog landing pages, RSS,Memebership pages, Sign In, Tags and more. Swap sections, and you'll be ready to go.

</p>

<p>Main Pages</p>
<ul>
  <li>3 x Landing Pages</li>
  <li>Simple memebership</li>
  <li>Tiered memebership</li>
</ul>
<p>Blog</p>
<ul>
  <li>3 x Blog landing</li>
  <li>6 x Blog post</li>
  <li>Archive</li>
  <li>Tags index</li>
  <li>Tag category</li>
  <li>RSS</li>
</ul>
<p>Utility pages</p>
<ul>
  <li>About</li>
  <li>Terms</li>
  <li>Privacy</li>
  <li>FAQ</li>
  <li>404</li>
</ul>
<p>Forms</p>
<li>Log in</li>
  <li>Sign up</li>
  <li>Reset password</li>

<p><strong>The template also includes a</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li>Style Guide</li>
  <li>Icons from Tabler Icons</li>
  <li>Custom fonts from Font Share or Google Fonts</li>
  <li>100%&nbsp;Responsive</li>
  <li>A link to every demo page from the overview page</li>
</ul>
<p>When you purchase the template you get access to a very permissive license that you can read from here</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/license/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">License: lexingtonthemes.com/license</a></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>If you have any questions do not hesitate to reach out on:</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li>Twitter.com/Mike_Andreuzza or&nbsp;Twitter.com/lexingtonthemes</li>
  <li>Email: michael@lexingtonthemes.com</li>
</ul>
<p>Thank you so much for reading and showing interest on Hemingway, if you need more templates, a bundle that includes all the templates, free updates is also offered on Lexington Themes.&nbsp;</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/pricing/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Learn more about the bundle</a></li>
</ul>

Commit message:

Corrected: links and descriptions. Added: New theme, StudioMax

src/content/themes/hemingway.md, after:

---
title: "Hemingway"
description: "Hemingway - A blog and literary website theme built with Astrojs and Talwind CSS for a blor or your personal website"
image: "/src/content/themes/_images/hemingway-hero.webp"
images: []
author:
  url: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/"
  name: "Lexington Themes"
  avatar: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/images/favicons/apple-touch-icon.png"
categories:
  - "blog"
  - "other"
demoUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/info/hemingway/"
buyUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.lemonsqueezy.com/checkout/buy/ec4dba6c-b32d-4990-9e08-d7cc7024349d"
tools:
  - "tailwind"
  - "alpinejs"
  - "mdx"
---

A blog and literary website theme with a clean, sophisticated layout that combines a gray background with contrasting white and orange text. It features column-based text alignment for articles and an author's photo, creating an elegant reading experience that mimics traditional print media.

Discover the adaptability of Lexington's multipage themes, each equipped with a dynamic MDX Blog and flexible sections for effortless customization. Offering the freedom to uniquely tailor your site, all our themes ensure you're up and running in hours, not days.

<p><strong>The template includes:</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li>3 x Landing Pages</li>
  <li>Simple memebership</li>
  <li>Tiered memebership</li>
</ul>
<p>Blog</p>
<ul>
  <li>3 x Blog landing</li>
  <li>6 x Blog post</li>
  <li>Archive</li>
  <li>Tags index</li>
  <li>Tag category</li>
  <li>RSS</li>
</ul>
<p>Utility pages</p>
<ul>
  <li>About</li>
  <li>Terms</li>
  <li>Privacy</li>
  <li>FAQ</li>
  <li>404</li>
</ul>
<p>Forms</p>
<li>Log in</li>
  <li>Sign up</li>
  <li>Reset password</li>

<p><strong>The template also includes a</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li>Style Guide</li>
  <li>Icons from Tabler Icons</li>
  <li>Custom fonts from Font Share or Google Fonts</li>
  <li>100%&nbsp;Responsive</li>
  <li>A link to every demo page from the overview page</li>
</ul>
<p>When you purchase the template you get access to a very permissive license that you can read from here</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/license/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">License: lexingtonthemes.com/license</a></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>If you have any questions do not hesitate to reach out on:</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li>Twitter.com/Mike_Andreuzza or&nbsp;Twitter.com/lexingtonthemes</li>
  <li>Email: michael@lexingtonthemes.com</li>
</ul>
<p>Thank you so much for reading and showing interest on Hemingway, if you need more templates, a bundle that includes all the templates, free updates is also offered on Lexington Themes.&nbsp;</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/pricing/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Learn more about the bundle</a></li>
</ul>
