src/content/themes/nutritrack.md, before:

---
title: "Nutritrack"
description: "A customizable landing page starter theme built in AstroJS with TailwindCSS."
image: "/src/content/themes/_images/nutritrack-hero.webp"
images: []
author:
  url: "https://github.com/christian-luntok"
  name: "Christian Luntok"
  avatar: "https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/54312759?v=4"
categories:
  - "landing-page"
repoUrl: "https://github.com/christian-luntok/astro-nutritrack"
demoUrl: "https://astro-nutritrack.avenuelabs.co/"
tools:
  - "react"
  - "tailwind"
  - "typescript"
stars: 13
---

<p>
  Getting started with Astro NutriTrack is easy. The theme comes with clear instructions on how to
  install and configure it on your landing page. This theme empowers you to create a stunning and
  personalized landing page for your Products with ease.
</p>
<h3>Key Features</h3>
<p>Here are some of the key features of Astro Lane:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Minimal styling (make it your own!)</li>
  <li>Accessible, semantic HTML markup</li>
  <li>Blazingly Fast</li>
  <li>100/100 Lighthouse performance</li>
  <li>Responsive &amp; SEO-friendly with canonical URLs, OpenGraph data and Meta tags.</li>
  <li>Sitemap support</li>
  <li>More than 10+ Components to use!</li>
</ul>

Commit message:

Fixed broken links and change content for Astro Lane and Nutritrack.

src/content/themes/nutritrack.md, after:

---
title: "Nutritrack"
description: "A simple customizable landing page starter theme built in AstroJS with TailwindCSS."
image: "/src/content/themes/_images/nutritrack-hero.webp"
images: []
author:
  url: "https://github.com/christian-luntok"
  name: "chrstnl"
  avatar: "https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/54312759?v=4"
categories:
  - "landing-page"
repoUrl: "https://github.com/christian-luntok/astro-nutritrack"
demoUrl: "https://astro-nutritrack.chrstnl.com/"
tools:
  - "react"
  - "tailwind"
  - "typescript"
stars: 13
---

<p>
A simple landing page template built with AstroJS and TailwindCSS, specifically designed for Notion creators.
</p>
<h3>Key Features</h3>
<p>Here are some of the key features of Astro Nutritrack:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Minimal styling (make it your own!)</li>
  <li>Accessible, semantic HTML markup</li>
  <li>Blazingly Fast</li>
  <li>100/100 Lighthouse performance</li>
  <li>Responsive &amp; SEO-friendly with canonical URLs, OpenGraph data and Meta tags.</li>
  <li>Sitemap support</li>
  <li>More than 10+ Components to use!</li>
</ul>
