src/content/themes/profoliox.md, before:

---
title: "ProFolioX"
description: "ProFolioX is a website template crafted for developers and designers who code."
image: "/src/content/themes/_images/profoliox-hero.webp"
images: []
author:
  url: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/"
  name: "Lexington Themes"
  avatar: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/images/favicons/apple-touch-icon.png"
categories:
  - "portfolio"
demoUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/viewports/profoliox"
buyUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.lemonsqueezy.com/checkout/buy/5fcfec43-356f-4f81-9a20-90d9539ed9b0"
publishDate: "Dec 18, 2023"
tools:
  - "tailwind"
  - "alpinejs"
  - "mdx"
---

<p>
  ✺ ProFolioX ━ A website template crafted for developers and designers who code. It's built
  with TailwindCSS and AstroJS.
</p>
<p>
  Beautifully designed in light and dark mode so you look good on every screen, because you never
  know who's watching you.
</p>
<p>
  The template is versatile and can be applied to various types of websites, such as marketing,
  saas, or product websites.
</p>
<p>The template includes:</p>
<ul>
<li><span style="color: var(--tw-prose-bold);">16 Demo pages</span></li>
  <li><span style="color: var(--tw-prose-bold);">50+ Sections</span></li>
  <li><span style="color: var(--tw-prose-bold);">60+ Components</span></li>
  <li>Home</li>
  <li>Work</li>
  <li>Tools in uise</li>
  <li>Now</li>
  <li>Contact</li>
  <li>404</li>
  <li>Articles</li>
  <li>Single Article x4</li>
  <li>Tags</li>
  <li>Slug</li>
  <li>Store</li>
  <li>Prodcut Page</li>
</ul>

<p>
  When you purchase the template you get access to a very permissive license that you can read from
  here
</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/license/">License: lexingtonthemes.com/license</a></li>
</ul>
<p>If you have any questions do not hesitate to reach out on:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Twitter.com/Mike_Andreuzza or Twitter.com/lexingtonthemes</li>
  <li>Email: michael@lexingtonthemes.com</li>
</ul>
<p>
  Thank you so much for reading and showing interest on ProFolioX, if you need more templates, a
  bundle that includes all the templates, free updates is also offered on Lexington Themes.
</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/pricing/">Learn more about the bundle</a></li>
</ul>

Commit message:

Corrected: links and descriptions. Added: New theme, StudioMax (#951)
Co-authored-by: Darius <19603573+itsMapleLeaf@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/themes/profoliox.md, after:

---
title: "ProFolioX"
description: "Pro Foliox - a personal theme with sidebar that supports light and dark theme built with Astrojs and Talwind CSS for a blor or your personal website"
image: "/src/content/themes/_images/profoliox-hero.webp"
images: []
author:
  url: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/"
  name: "Lexington Themes"
  avatar: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/images/favicons/apple-touch-icon.png"
categories:
  - "portfolio"
  - "recent"
demoUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/info/profoliox"
buyUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.lemonsqueezy.com/checkout/buy/5fcfec43-356f-4f81-9a20-90d9539ed9b0"
publishDate: "Dec 18, 2023"
tools:
  - "tailwind"
  - "alpinejs"
  - "mdx"
---

A light and dark and light themed for a blog or personal portfolio designed with a left-hand navigation sidebar. The main content area is dedicated to articles, featuring a clean, typographic layout that highlights headings and body text for readability. The aesthetic is modern and content-focused, with a structured, user-friendly interface.

Discover the adaptability of Lexington's multipage themes, each equipped with a dynamic MDX Blog and flexible sections for effortless customization. Offering the freedom to uniquely tailor your site, all our themes ensure you're up and running in hours, not days.

<p><strong>The template includes:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li><span style="color: var(--tw-prose-bold);">16 Demo pages</span></li>
  <li><span style="color: var(--tw-prose-bold);">50+ Sections</span></li>
  <li><span style="color: var(--tw-prose-bold);">60+ Components</span></li>
  <li>Home</li>
  <li>Work</li>
  <li>Tools in uise</li>
  <li>Now</li>
  <li>Contact</li>
  <li>404</li>
  <li>Articles</li>
  <li>Single Article x4</li>
  <li>Tags</li>
  <li>Slug</li>
  <li>Store</li>
  <li>Prodcut Page</li>
</ul>

<p>
  When you purchase the template you get access to a very permissive license that you can read from
  here
</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/license/">License: lexingtonthemes.com/license</a></li>
</ul>
<p>If you have any questions do not hesitate to reach out on:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Twitter.com/Mike_Andreuzza or Twitter.com/lexingtonthemes</li>
  <li>Email: michael@lexingtonthemes.com</li>
</ul>
<p>
  Thank you so much for reading and showing interest on ProFolioX, if you need more templates, a
  bundle that includes all the templates, free updates is also offered on Lexington Themes.
</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/pricing/">Learn more about the bundle</a></li>
</ul>
