src/content/themes/semplice.md, before:

---
title: "Semplice"
description: "A modern & clean UI Kit with more than 50 demo pages and 100s of components."
image: "/src/content/themes/_images/semplice-hero.webp"
images: []
author:
  url: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/"
  name: "Lexington Themes"
  avatar: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/images/favicons/apple-touch-icon.png"
categories:
  - "landing-page"
  - "other"
demoUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/viewports/semplice/"
buyUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.lemonsqueezy.com/checkout/buy/59105270-55f2-42b0-9728-3094f40f86f4"
tools:
  - "tailwind"
  - "alpinejs"
  - "mdx"
---

<p>✺&nbsp;<strong>Semplice UI kit</strong>&nbsp;━&nbsp;Semplice offers an elegant design that enables you to effortlessly create and customise landing pages, settings dashboards, or websites in a matter of hours instead of months.

</p>
<p><strong>The template includes:</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li> <strong>50+ Demo pages</strong></li>
  <li><strong>100+ Sections</strong></li>
  <li><strong>100+ Components</strong></li>
  <li>2 Landing page </li>
  <li>About</li>
  <li>Blog</li>
  <li>Blog Post</li>
  <li>Tags index</li>
  <li>Tags slug</li>
  <li>RSS</li>
  <li>Carriers Home</li>
  <li>Carriers Details</li>
  <li>Settings Dashboard</li>
  <li>Settings General</li>
  <li>Settings Teams</li>
  <li>Settings Conexions</li>
  <li>Settings Billings</li>
  <li>Settings Invoices</li>
  <li>Settings Tokens</li>
  <li>Customers Home</li>
  <li>Customers Details</li>
  <li>Integrations Home</li>
  <li>Integrations Details</li>
  <li>Help Center</li>
  <li>Topics</li>
  <li>Single Topic</li>
  <li>Video Topic</li>
  <li>Course Library</li>
  <li>Course Lesson</li>
  <li>Changelog Home</li>
  <li>Changelog Details</li>
  <li>Status</li>
  <li>Terms</li>
  <li>Privacy</li>
  <li>Coming Soon</li>
  <li>404</li>
  <li>2 x Contact</li>
  <li>Submit</li>
  <li>Log in</li>
  <li>Sing up</li>
  <li>Forgot Password</li>
  <li>Reset Password</li>
  <li>Style guide</li>

</ul>
<p><strong>The template also includes a</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li>Style Guide</li>
  <li>Icons from Tabler Icons</li>
  <li>Custom fonts from Font Share or Google Fonts</li>
  <li>100%&nbsp;Responsive</li>
  <li>A link to every demo page from the overview page</li>
</ul>
<p>When you purchase the template you get access to a very permissive license that you can read from here</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/license/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">License: lexingtonthemes.com/license</a></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>If you have any questions do not hesitate to reach out on:</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li>Twitter.com/Mike_Andreuzza or&nbsp;Twitter.com/lexingtonthemes</li>
  <li>Email: michael@lexingtonthemes.com</li>
</ul>
<p>Thank you so much for reading and showing interest on Semplice, if you need more templates, a bundle that includes all the templates, free updates is also offered on Lexington Themes.&nbsp;</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/pricing/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Learn more about the bundle</a></li>
</ul>

Commit message:

Corrected: links and descriptions. Added: New theme, StudioMax

src/content/themes/semplice.md, after:

---
title: "Semplice"
description: "Semplice - An elegant and clean multipage theme built with Astrojs and Talwind CSS for your next project"
image: "/src/content/themes/_images/semplice-hero.webp"
images: []
author:
  url: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/"
  name: "Lexington Themes"
  avatar: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/images/favicons/apple-touch-icon.png"
categories:
  - "landing-page"
  - "other"
demoUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/info/semplice/"
buyUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.lemonsqueezy.com/checkout/buy/59105270-55f2-42b0-9728-3094f40f86f4"
tools:
  - "tailwind"
  - "alpinejs"
  - "mdx"
---

A clean, modern theme for a SAAS, decentralized platform, blockchain or cryptocurrency service. It combines a white background with purple highlights, featuring a simple, user-friendly layout for a technology-focused platform

Discover the adaptability of Lexington's multipage themes, each equipped with a dynamic MDX Blog and flexible sections for effortless customization. Offering the freedom to uniquely tailor your site, all our themes ensure you're up and running in hours, not days.

<p><strong>The template includes:</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li> <strong>50+ Demo pages</strong></li>
  <li><strong>100+ Sections</strong></li>
  <li><strong>100+ Components</strong></li>
  <li>2 Landing page </li>
  <li>About</li>
  <li>Blog</li>
  <li>Blog Post</li>
  <li>Tags index</li>
  <li>Tags slug</li>
  <li>RSS</li>
  <li>Carriers Home</li>
  <li>Carriers Details</li>
  <li>Settings Dashboard</li>
  <li>Settings General</li>
  <li>Settings Teams</li>
  <li>Settings Conexions</li>
  <li>Settings Billings</li>
  <li>Settings Invoices</li>
  <li>Settings Tokens</li>
  <li>Customers Home</li>
  <li>Customers Details</li>
  <li>Integrations Home</li>
  <li>Integrations Details</li>
  <li>Help Center</li>
  <li>Topics</li>
  <li>Single Topic</li>
  <li>Video Topic</li>
  <li>Course Library</li>
  <li>Course Lesson</li>
  <li>Changelog Home</li>
  <li>Changelog Details</li>
  <li>Status</li>
  <li>Terms</li>
  <li>Privacy</li>
  <li>Coming Soon</li>
  <li>404</li>
  <li>2 x Contact</li>
  <li>Submit</li>
  <li>Log in</li>
  <li>Sing up</li>
  <li>Forgot Password</li>
  <li>Reset Password</li>
  <li>Style guide</li>

</ul>
<p><strong>The template also includes a</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li>Style Guide</li>
  <li>Icons from Tabler Icons</li>
  <li>Custom fonts from Font Share or Google Fonts</li>
  <li>100%&nbsp;Responsive</li>
  <li>A link to every demo page from the overview page</li>
</ul>
<p>When you purchase the template you get access to a very permissive license that you can read from here</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/license/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">License: lexingtonthemes.com/license</a></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>If you have any questions do not hesitate to reach out on:</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li>Twitter.com/Mike_Andreuzza or&nbsp;Twitter.com/lexingtonthemes</li>
  <li>Email: michael@lexingtonthemes.com</li>
</ul>
<p>Thank you so much for reading and showing interest on Semplice, if you need more templates, a bundle that includes all the templates, free updates is also offered on Lexington Themes.&nbsp;</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/pricing/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Learn more about the bundle</a></li>
</ul>
