src/content/themes/snowpeak.md, before:

---
title: "Snowpeak"
description: "Snowpeak is a colorful, modern and simple UI Kit."
image: "/src/content/themes/_images/snowpeak-hero.webp"
images: []
author:
  url: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/"
  name: "Lexington Themes"
  avatar: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/images/favicons/apple-touch-icon.png"
categories:
  - "landing-page"
  - "other"
demoUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/viewports/snowpeak/"
buyUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.lemonsqueezy.com/checkout/buy/e2d91f04-5944-495e-a679-b3df5c08b196"
tools:
  - "tailwind"
  - "alpinejs"
  - "mdx"
---

<p>✺&nbsp;<strong>Snowpeak UI kit</strong>&nbsp;━&nbsp;Snowpeak is a fun and colorfull UI Kit that allows you to put togheter pages from different categories and customize them to your needs.</p>
<p><strong>The template includes:</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li><strong>38 Demo pages</strong></li>
  <li><strong>80+ Sections</strong></li>
  <li><strong>100+ Components</strong></li>
  <li>2 x Landing pages</li>
<li>About</li>
<li>Team</li>

<li>2x Landing pages</li>
<li>4x blog post</li>
<li>Tags index</li>
<li>Tag category</li>

<li>Terms Of use</li>
<li>Privacy Policy</li>
<li>Privacy Cookies</li>
<li>404</li>
<li>Changelog</li>
<li>Coming Soon</li>
<li>Road Map</li>
<li>Help center home</li>
<li>Topics</li>
<li>Single Topic</li>
<li>Details</li>
<li>Integrations home</li>
<li>Integrations details</li>
<li>Sing in</li>
<li>Sign up</li>
<li>Forgot Password</li>
<li>Reset Password</li>
<li>Request a demo</li>
<li>Coming soon</li>
<li>Contact chat bubble</li>
<li>Cookies settings</li>
<li>Integration connect</li>
</ul>
<p>When you purchase the template you get access to a very permissive license that you can read from here</p>
<ul>
   <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/license/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">License: lexingtonthemes.com/license</a></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>If you have any questions do not hesitate to reach out on:</strong></p>
<ul>
   <li>Twitter: @Mike_Andreuzza or&nbsp; @lexingtonthemes</li>
   <li>Email: michael@lexingtonthemes.com</li>
</ul>
<p>Thank you so much for reading and showing interest on Snowpeak, if you need more templates, a bundle that includes all the templates, free updates is also offered on Lexington Themes.&nbsp;</p>
<ul>
   <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/pricing/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" >Learn more about the bundle</a></li>
</ul>

Commit message:

Corrected: links and descriptions. Added: New theme, StudioMax (#951)
Co-authored-by: Darius <19603573+itsMapleLeaf@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/themes/snowpeak.md, after:

---
title: "Snowpeak"
description: "Snowpeak - A fun and classic theme theme built with Astrojs and Talwind CSS for a blor or your personal website"
image: "/src/content/themes/_images/snowpeak-hero.webp"
images: []
author:
  url: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/"
  name: "Lexington Themes"
  avatar: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/images/favicons/apple-touch-icon.png"
categories:
  - "landing-page"
  - "other"
demoUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.com/info/snowpeak/"
buyUrl: "https://lexingtonthemes.lemonsqueezy.com/checkout/buy/e2d91f04-5944-495e-a679-b3df5c08b196"
tools:
  - "tailwind"
  - "alpinejs"
  - "mdx"
---

A theme with a fresh and modern look, utilizing a bright teal and white color scheme with pink accents. The layout is clean and organized, featuring sections for product features, and articles, which could be used for a technology product, SaaS company, or a digital platform promoting a modern and efficient user experience.

Discover the adaptability of Lexington's multipage themes, each equipped with a dynamic MDX Blog and flexible sections for effortless customization. Offering the freedom to uniquely tailor your site, all our themes ensure you're up and running in hours, not days.

<p><strong>The template includes:</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li><strong>38 Demo pages</strong></li>
  <li><strong>80+ Sections</strong></li>
  <li><strong>100+ Components</strong></li>
  <li>2 x Landing pages</li>
<li>About</li>
<li>Team</li>

<li>2x Landing pages</li>
<li>4x blog post</li>
<li>Tags index</li>
<li>Tag category</li>

<li>Terms Of use</li>
<li>Privacy Policy</li>
<li>Privacy Cookies</li>
<li>404</li>
<li>Changelog</li>
<li>Coming Soon</li>
<li>Road Map</li>
<li>Help center home</li>
<li>Topics</li>
<li>Single Topic</li>
<li>Details</li>
<li>Integrations home</li>
<li>Integrations details</li>
<li>Sing in</li>
<li>Sign up</li>
<li>Forgot Password</li>
<li>Reset Password</li>
<li>Request a demo</li>
<li>Coming soon</li>
<li>Contact chat bubble</li>
<li>Cookies settings</li>
<li>Integration connect</li>
</ul>
<p>When you purchase the template you get access to a very permissive license that you can read from here</p>
<ul>
   <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/license/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">License: lexingtonthemes.com/license</a></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>If you have any questions do not hesitate to reach out on:</strong></p>
<ul>
   <li>Twitter: @Mike_Andreuzza or&nbsp; @lexingtonthemes</li>
   <li>Email: michael@lexingtonthemes.com</li>
</ul>
<p>Thank you so much for reading and showing interest on Snowpeak, if you need more templates, a bundle that includes all the templates, free updates is also offered on Lexington Themes.&nbsp;</p>
<ul>
   <li><a href="https://lexingtonthemes.com/pricing/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" >Learn more about the bundle</a></li>
</ul>
