src/content/blog/astro-340.mdx, before:

---
title: "Astro 3.4: Page Partials"
description: "Astro 3.4 is now released with support for page partials, improved image optimization performance, and an early preview of a new dev overlay."
publishDate: "October 26, 2023"
authors:
  - erika
  - matthew
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/astro-330/blog-hero-3_3-release.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/astro-330/og-image-3_3-release.webp"
lang: "en"
---

Astro 3.4 is out and features support for page partials, a new experimental dev overlay, and more.

- **[Page partials](#page-partials)**
- **[Image optimization performance](#image-component-performance)**
- **[Dev overlay (experimental)](#dev-overlay-experimental)**

To take advantage of the latest features, make sure you're running the latest version of Astro. You can upgrade to Astro 3.4 by running the upgrade command for your package manager of choice:

```sh
npm install astro@latest
pnpm upgrade astro --latest
yarn upgrade astro --latest
```

## Page Partials

A page component can now be identified as a **partial** page, which will render its HTML content without including a `<! DOCTYPE html>` declaration nor any `<head>` content.

Partials are best used in conjunction with a rendering library, like [htmx](https://htmx.org/) or [Stimulus](https://stimulus.hotwired.dev/) that is built around fetching HTML fragments.

Pages marked as partials do not have `<!DOCTYPE html>` or any `<head>` content included in the rendered result. You can mark any page as a partial by setting the `partial` option in the component frontmatter.


```astro
---
export const partial = true;
---
<li>This is a single list item.</li>
```

This will result in the following HTML output:

```html
<li>This is a single list item.</li>
```

Any file type (for example `.mdx`) that can be used as pages can also be marked as partials.

Read more about [page partials](/en/core-concepts/astro-pages/#partials) in our documentation.

## Image Component Performance

Astro now generates optimized images *concurrently* at build time for static sites, which can significantly speed up build times for sites with many images. Additionally, Astro will now reuse the same buffer for all variants of an image. This should improve performance for websites with many variants of the same image, especially when using remote images.

No code changes are required to take advantage of these improvements.

## Dev Overlay (experimental)

A new experimental __dev overlay__ is available in 3.4 that allows you to inspect your page islands, see helpful audits on performance and accessibility, and more. A Dev Overlay Plugin API is also included to allow you to add new features and third-party integrations to it.

This release is focused on the plugin API so that integration authors can begin testing it out and provide feedback. The built-in features are limited at the moment, but will begin expanding in upcoming releases.

You can enable access to the dev overlay and its API by adding the following flag to your Astro config:

```ts
// astro.config.mjs
export default {
  experimental: {
    devOverlay: true
  }
};
```

Read the [Dev Overlay Plugin API documentation](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/dev-overlay-plugin-reference/) for information about building your own plugins to integrate with Astro's dev overlay.

## Bug Fixes

Additional bug fixes are included in this release. Check out the [release notes](https://github.com/withastro/astro/pull/8917) to learn more.

Commit message:

Add a link to the todomvc example

src/content/blog/astro-340.mdx, after:

---
title: "Astro 3.4: Page Partials"
description: "Astro 3.4 is now released with support for page partials, improved image optimization performance, and an early preview of a new dev overlay."
publishDate: "October 26, 2023"
authors:
  - erika
  - matthew
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/astro-330/blog-hero-3_3-release.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/astro-330/og-image-3_3-release.webp"
lang: "en"
---

Astro 3.4 is out and features support for page partials, a new experimental dev overlay, and more.

- **[Page partials](#page-partials)**
- **[Image optimization performance](#image-component-performance)**
- **[Dev overlay (experimental)](#dev-overlay-experimental)**

To take advantage of the latest features, make sure you're running the latest version of Astro. You can upgrade to Astro 3.4 by running the upgrade command for your package manager of choice:

```sh
npm install astro@latest
pnpm upgrade astro --latest
yarn upgrade astro --latest
```

## Page Partials

A page component can now be identified as a **partial** page, which will render its HTML content without including a `<! DOCTYPE html>` declaration nor any `<head>` content.

Partials are best used in conjunction with a rendering library, like [htmx](https://htmx.org/) or [Stimulus](https://stimulus.hotwired.dev/) that is built around fetching HTML fragments.

Pages marked as partials do not have `<!DOCTYPE html>` or any `<head>` content included in the rendered result. You can mark any page as a partial by setting the `partial` option in the component frontmatter.


```astro
---
export const partial = true;
---
<li>This is a single list item.</li>
```

This will result in the following HTML output:

```html
<li>This is a single list item.</li>
```

Any file type (for example `.mdx`) that can be used as pages can also be marked as partials.

Read more about [page partials](/en/core-concepts/astro-pages/#partials) in our documentation, and check out this [TodoMVC example](https://github.com/tony-sull/todomvc-astro-htmx) using Astro page partials and htmx.

## Image Component Performance

Astro now generates optimized images *concurrently* at build time for static sites, which can significantly speed up build times for sites with many images. Additionally, Astro will now reuse the same buffer for all variants of an image. This should improve performance for websites with many variants of the same image, especially when using remote images.

No code changes are required to take advantage of these improvements.

## Dev Overlay (experimental)

A new experimental __dev overlay__ is available in 3.4 that allows you to inspect your page islands, see helpful audits on performance and accessibility, and more. A Dev Overlay Plugin API is also included to allow you to add new features and third-party integrations to it.

This release is focused on the plugin API so that integration authors can begin testing it out and provide feedback. The built-in features are limited at the moment, but will begin expanding in upcoming releases.

You can enable access to the dev overlay and its API by adding the following flag to your Astro config:

```ts
// astro.config.mjs
export default {
  experimental: {
    devOverlay: true
  }
};
```

Read the [Dev Overlay Plugin API documentation](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/dev-overlay-plugin-reference/) for information about building your own plugins to integrate with Astro's dev overlay.

## Bug Fixes

Additional bug fixes are included in this release. Check out the [release notes](https://github.com/withastro/astro/pull/8917) to learn more.
