src/content/blog/community-awards-22.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Astro Community Awards 2022'
description: 'The Astro Community Awards for 2022 have been announced! These awards recognize the Astro community members who went above and beyond the past year. Read more to find out who was recognized!'
publishDate: 'January 27, 2023'
authors:
    - fuzzy
socialImage: '/assets/blog/community-awards/social-min.jpg'
coverImage: '/assets/blog/community-awards/cover-min.jpg'
lang: 'en'
---

I’m thrilled to announce the winners of Astro Contributor Awards for 2022!

**What are the Astro Contributor Awards?** Every so often, we distribute 100% of our monthly **[Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/astrodotbuild)** sponsorship funds to standout members of our community. These awards are peer-nominated within our Discord, and go to recognize the people who go above and beyond to improve Astro in any meaningful way. You can see our past winners [here](/blog/contributor-awards-4/) and [here](/blog/community-day/).

This time around, our monthly sponsorships totalled almost **$8500** which we are proud to distribute to the following recipients:

- **@happydev ($1000)**
- **@hippo ($500)**
- **@kevinzunigacuellar ($500)**
- **@Yan ‘Sidebar’ Thomas ($500)**
- **@Lloyd ($500)**
- **@wassfila ($500)**
- **@Bryceguy ($500)**
- **@JuanM04 ($500)**
- **@Rishi Raj Jain ($500)**
- **@ZV ($250)**
- **@kyosuke ($250)**
- **@tc ($250)**
- **@dreyfus92 ($250)**
- **@Antony ($250)**
- **@okikio ($250)**
- **@midudev ($250)**
- **@cpenned ($250)**
- **@shf0811 ($250)**
- **@Muhymin ($250)**
- **@Airborne04 ($250)**
- **@Elian ($250)**
- **@Julian Cataldo ($250)**
- **@Marcus (LeMorrow) ($250)**

Thanks to these awesome Astronauts, we have first-class documentation support in six languages! A wonderful range of amazing Astro integrations, a fantastic support channel, there is so much more than I can list here! But most importantly, these recipients have have helped nurture a friendly community that everyone feels welcome in.

If you have contributed to Astro in any way over the past year, thank you! You can **[join us on Discord](https://astro.build/chat)** to learn more about these awards and the standout work done by this latest batch of recipients.

Lastly, a huge thank you to our amazing sponsors — including **[Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/)**, **[Storyblok](https://storyblok.com/)**, **[Vercel](https://vercel.com/)**, **[Ship Shape](https://shipshape.io/)**, and **[Google](http://google.com/)** — for supporting open source software and helping to make programs like this posssible.

Commit message:

Houston, we have a website (#552)
* porting the new www-3 codebase

* chore: lint format fixes

* adding release blog post

* add react to the tools marquee

* tweaking hover states

* fix: z-index issue in Get Started background glow

* updating Deploy to Netlify button

* bad merge when porting the blog post

* nit: bringing back the correct blog post link hover effect

* chore: porting http(s) fixes from #551

* chore: update og images

* fix: fallback social image URL

---------

Co-authored-by: Tony Sullivan <tony.f.sullivan@outlook.com>

src/content/blog/community-awards-22.mdx, after:

---
title: "Astro Community Awards 2022"
description: "The Astro Community Awards for 2022 have been announced! These awards recognize the Astro community members who went above and beyond the past year. Read more to find out who was recognized!"
publishDate: "January 27, 2023"
authors:
  - fuzzy
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/community-awards/social-min.webp"
lang: "en"
---

I’m thrilled to announce the winners of Astro Contributor Awards for 2022!

**What are the Astro Contributor Awards?** Every so often, we distribute 100% of our monthly **[Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/astrodotbuild)** sponsorship funds to standout members of our community. These awards are peer-nominated within our Discord, and go to recognize the people who go above and beyond to improve Astro in any meaningful way. You can see our past winners [here](/blog/contributor-awards-4/) and [here](/blog/community-day/).

This time around, our monthly sponsorships totalled almost **$8500** which we are proud to distribute to the following recipients:

- **@happydev ($1000)**
- **@hippo ($500)**
- **@kevinzunigacuellar ($500)**
- **@Yan ‘Sidebar’ Thomas ($500)**
- **@Lloyd ($500)**
- **@wassfila ($500)**
- **@Bryceguy ($500)**
- **@JuanM04 ($500)**
- **@Rishi Raj Jain ($500)**
- **@ZV ($250)**
- **@kyosuke ($250)**
- **@tc ($250)**
- **@dreyfus92 ($250)**
- **@Antony ($250)**
- **@okikio ($250)**
- **@midudev ($250)**
- **@cpenned ($250)**
- **@shf0811 ($250)**
- **@Muhymin ($250)**
- **@Airborne04 ($250)**
- **@Elian ($250)**
- **@Julian Cataldo ($250)**
- **@Marcus (LeMorrow) ($250)**

Thanks to these awesome Astronauts, we have first-class documentation support in six languages! A wonderful range of amazing Astro integrations, a fantastic support channel, there is so much more than I can list here! But most importantly, these recipients have have helped nurture a friendly community that everyone feels welcome in.

If you have contributed to Astro in any way over the past year, thank you! You can **[join us on Discord](https://astro.build/chat)** to learn more about these awards and the standout work done by this latest batch of recipients.

Lastly, a huge thank you to our amazing sponsors — including **[Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/)**, **[Storyblok](https://storyblok.com/)**, **[Vercel](https://vercel.com/)**, **[Ship Shape](https://shipshape.io/)**, and **[Google](https://google.com/)** — for supporting open source software and helping to make programs like this posssible.
