src/content/blog/contributor-awards-4.mdx, before:

---
title: "Astro Contributor Awards: September 2022 Edition"
description: "Every few months, we distribute 100% of our sponsorship funds for an entire month to the standout members of our community. These awards go to recognize the people who go above and beyond to improve Astro in some way, contributing inside and outside of our community."
publishDate: 'September 6, 2022'
socialImage: '/assets/blog/community-day/social.jpg'
coverImage: '/assets/blog/community-day/cover.jpg'
lang: 'en'
authors:
  - fred
---

I'm thrilled to announce the winners of the fourth Astro Contributor Awards! 

**What are the Astro Contributor Awards?** Every few months, we distribute 100% of our [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/astrodotbuild) sponsorship funds for an entire month to standout members of our community. These awards are peer-nominated within our Discord, and go to recognize the people who go above and beyond to improve Astro in any meaningful way.

This time around, our monthly sponsorships totalled almost **$5000** which we are proud to distribute to the following recipients:

- **@agusmulet** ($250)
- **@Percy** ($250)
- **@kyosuke** ($250)
- **@Λstroalex / Chrissdroid** ($250)
- **@Eka** ($500)
- **@kevinzunigacuellar** ($500)
- **@ZV** ($500)
- **@JuanM04** ($500)
- **@Randall** ($500)
- **@Yan "Sidebar" Thomas** ($500)
- **@Lloyd** ($500)
- **@Hippo** ($500)

Thanks to these standout contributors we have translated documentation, a battle-tested Vercel integration, a fantastic support channel, a friendly Discord community that everyone feels welcome in, and more improvements than I can list here!

If you have contributed to Astro in any way over the last few months, thank you. Astro is what it is today because of this amazing community. You can [join us on Discord](https://astro.build/chat) to learn more about these awards and the standout work done by this latest batch of recipients.

Lastly, a huge thank you to our amazing sponsors -- including [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/), [Storyblok](https://storyblok.com/), [Vercel](https://vercel.com/), and [Google](http://google.com/) -- for supporting open source software and helping to make programs like this posssible.

Commit message:

Houston, we have a website (#552)
* porting the new www-3 codebase

* chore: lint format fixes

* adding release blog post

* add react to the tools marquee

* tweaking hover states

* fix: z-index issue in Get Started background glow

* updating Deploy to Netlify button

* bad merge when porting the blog post

* nit: bringing back the correct blog post link hover effect

* chore: porting http(s) fixes from #551

* chore: update og images

* fix: fallback social image URL

---------

Co-authored-by: Tony Sullivan <tony.f.sullivan@outlook.com>

src/content/blog/contributor-awards-4.mdx, after:

---
title: "Astro Contributor Awards: September 2022 Edition"
description: "Every few months, we distribute 100% of our sponsorship funds for an entire month to the standout members of our community. These awards go to recognize the people who go above and beyond to improve Astro in some way, contributing inside and outside of our community."
publishDate: "September 6, 2022"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/community-day/social.webp"
lang: "en"
authors:
  - fred
---

I'm thrilled to announce the winners of the fourth Astro Contributor Awards!

**What are the Astro Contributor Awards?** Every few months, we distribute 100% of our [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/astrodotbuild) sponsorship funds for an entire month to standout members of our community. These awards are peer-nominated within our Discord, and go to recognize the people who go above and beyond to improve Astro in any meaningful way.

This time around, our monthly sponsorships totalled almost **$5000** which we are proud to distribute to the following recipients:

- **@agusmulet** ($250)
- **@Percy** ($250)
- **@kyosuke** ($250)
- **@Λstroalex / Chrissdroid** ($250)
- **@Eka** ($500)
- **@kevinzunigacuellar** ($500)
- **@ZV** ($500)
- **@JuanM04** ($500)
- **@Randall** ($500)
- **@Yan "Sidebar" Thomas** ($500)
- **@Lloyd** ($500)
- **@Hippo** ($500)

Thanks to these standout contributors we have translated documentation, a battle-tested Vercel integration, a fantastic support channel, a friendly Discord community that everyone feels welcome in, and more improvements than I can list here!

If you have contributed to Astro in any way over the last few months, thank you. Astro is what it is today because of this amazing community. You can [join us on Discord](https://astro.build/chat) to learn more about these awards and the standout work done by this latest batch of recipients.

Lastly, a huge thank you to our amazing sponsors -- including [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/), [Storyblok](https://storyblok.com/), [Vercel](https://vercel.com/), and [Google](https://google.com/) -- for supporting open source software and helping to make programs like this posssible.
