src/content/blog/launch-week.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Astro Beta Launch Week'
description: 'incoming transmission // attention space cadets...'
publishDate: 'March 28, 2022'
socialImage: '/assets/blog/launch-week/social.jpg'
lang: 'en'
authors:
  - fred
---

*“There’s a simple secret to building a faster website — just ship less.”* That was how we [introduced Astro](https://astro.build/blog/introducing-astro/) to the world almost one year ago. 

A lot has happened since then: 10,000+ GitHub stars. 150,000+ npm downloads. 25,000 code commits made by over 240 individual contributors. Thousands of websites built with Astro that are already running in production at Google, Trivago, Netlify and more.

But we’re just getting started. 

**Join us on Monday April 4 for the official launch of the** **Astro v1.0.0 Beta Release!** 
Our maintainers have been hard at work preparing this release and we can’t wait to show off what we’ve built. After a year of heads-down development, Astro is now preparing for takeoff. T-Minus: 7 days.

**But why stop at just one announcement?** We’ll be sharing even more exciting news *every day of the week*. That’s FIVE days of never-before-seen demos, groundbreaking new features, livestreams, Q&As with our community and more.

Whether you are already an Astro user or just curious to learn more, this is going to be an exciting week!

## The Launch Week Lineup

We aren’t going to give anything else away just yet, but here’s a sneak peek at our lineup for the entire week:

- Monday, April 4 at 9:30am PST: **Astro v1.0 Release Beta!**
- Tuesday, April 5 at 9:30am PST: **Going Beyond Static Sites**
- Wednesday, April 6 at 9:30am PST: **Themes, Components, and Integrations**
- Thursday, April 7 at 9:30am PST: **Contributor Day!**
- Friday, April 8 at 9:30am PST: **Recap (and one more thing...)**

## It All Starts on April 4th

Join us on Monday, April 4 to help us kick off the week with our biggest release ever. Then, keep coming back all week for more awesome stuff every day.

Follow us on Twitter to stay on top of all the news, and join us on Discord to meet our community and get access to special launch-week livestreams and Q&As with core maintainers. 

It all starts on Monday, April 4. See you there!

> Thank you goes out to all of the contributors & maintainers that make this project possible. A special thank you to [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) (our official hosting partner) and all of our other [amazing open source sponsors.](https://opencollective.com/astrodotbuild)

Commit message:

Houston, we have a website (#552)
* porting the new www-3 codebase

* chore: lint format fixes

* adding release blog post

* add react to the tools marquee

* tweaking hover states

* fix: z-index issue in Get Started background glow

* updating Deploy to Netlify button

* bad merge when porting the blog post

* nit: bringing back the correct blog post link hover effect

* chore: porting http(s) fixes from #551

* chore: update og images

* fix: fallback social image URL

---------

Co-authored-by: Tony Sullivan <tony.f.sullivan@outlook.com>

src/content/blog/launch-week.mdx, after:

---
title: "Astro Beta Launch Week"
description: "incoming transmission // attention space cadets..."
publishDate: "March 28, 2022"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/launch-week/social.webp"
lang: "en"
authors:
  - fred
---

_“There’s a simple secret to building a faster website — just ship less.”_ That was how we [introduced Astro](https://astro.build/blog/introducing-astro/) to the world almost one year ago.

A lot has happened since then: 10,000+ GitHub stars. 150,000+ npm downloads. 25,000 code commits made by over 240 individual contributors. Thousands of websites built with Astro that are already running in production at Google, Trivago, Netlify and more.

But we’re just getting started.

**Join us on Monday April 4 for the official launch of the** **Astro v1.0.0 Beta Release!**
Our maintainers have been hard at work preparing this release and we can’t wait to show off what we’ve built. After a year of heads-down development, Astro is now preparing for takeoff. T-Minus: 7 days.

**But why stop at just one announcement?** We’ll be sharing even more exciting news _every day of the week_. That’s FIVE days of never-before-seen demos, groundbreaking new features, livestreams, Q&As with our community and more.

Whether you are already an Astro user or just curious to learn more, this is going to be an exciting week!

## The Launch Week Lineup

We aren’t going to give anything else away just yet, but here’s a sneak peek at our lineup for the entire week:

- Monday, April 4 at 9:30am PST: **Astro v1.0 Release Beta!**
- Tuesday, April 5 at 9:30am PST: **Going Beyond Static Sites**
- Wednesday, April 6 at 9:30am PST: **Themes, Components, and Integrations**
- Thursday, April 7 at 9:30am PST: **Contributor Day!**
- Friday, April 8 at 9:30am PST: **Recap (and one more thing...)**

## It All Starts on April 4th

Join us on Monday, April 4 to help us kick off the week with our biggest release ever. Then, keep coming back all week for more awesome stuff every day.

Follow us on Twitter to stay on top of all the news, and join us on Discord to meet our community and get access to special launch-week livestreams and Q&As with core maintainers.

It all starts on Monday, April 4. See you there!

> Thank you goes out to all of the contributors & maintainers that make this project possible. A special thank you to [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) (our official hosting partner) and all of our other [amazing open source sponsors.](https://opencollective.com/astrodotbuild)
