src/content/blog/whats-new-march-2024.mdx, before:

---
title: "What's new in Astro - March 2024"
description: "March 2024 - Astro Studio, Astro Developer Portal and so much more"
publishDate: "March 31, 2024"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-shared.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-march-2024/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---
import ShowcaseGrid from './_whats-new-components/ShowcaseGrid.astro';
import ThemeGrid from './_whats-new-components/ThemeGrid.astro';

A month full of releases, Astro Studio, Astro Developer Portal, and so much more. Let's dive in!

## Updates from Mission Control

- [Astro Studio](https://studio.astro.build) is finally here! 🚀
- We launched the all new [Astro Developer Portal](/blog/dev-portal)! 🎉
- All tests in Astro have been [migrated to `node:test`](/blog/node-test-migration/)

## Releases

- Astro [4.5](https://astro.build/blog/astro-450/)
- The first release of [`astro:db`](blog/astro-db-deep-dive/)
- Starlight [0.21](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.21.0)

## Docs

This month, we added a new [Upgrade Astro](https://docs.astro.build/en/upgrade-astro/) page to the docs that includes all kinds of guidance on how, when, and why to upgrade to the latest version, including an explanation of Astro's semantic versioning from our platform team. If you ever wondered what all the different numbers in our release versions meant, we've now
got you covered!

Our weekly Discord call “Talking and Doc’ing” is a chance for you to watch Team Docs work in public, jump in a shared Codespace or Gitpod Workspace, and contribute to the docs live, together. This month’s topics included:

- Updating our [community website](https://community.astro.build) with all of our past community award winners going back to the very beginning, giving us a chance to test a new pagination component.
- Adding our new `<Steps />` component to the entire Build a Blog beginner tutorial, and reminding ourselves that not *every* numbered list is a set of instructions to follow.
- Helping a brand new Astro-focused tips and resource site get off the ground, using Starlight to present high quality Astro content like recipes, tutorials and guide.

## Community

### Community Awards February

These are some of the people who went above and beyond last month to make all our lives just a little (or a lot!) better:

- 🌟 $500 to @mingjunlu for contributing to all aspects of the Astro project and community including support, translations, migrating tests and fixing issues.
- 🍾 $250 to @ktym4a for contributions to the Astro ecosystem, including core and integrations.
- 🎈 $250 to @jackshelton Shelton for outstanding leadership and community support with the QwikDev/astro integration.
- 🎊 $250 to @soslan117 for their enthusiastic contributions translating Astro Docs into Russian.
- 🎉 $250 to @bryceguy for creating several popular community packages and leadership in community support.

👕 ✨ Swag shop merch issued this month to @tigger_hyk, @nathanlawsn, and @sergios1630 !

Check them out and learn more about the Astro Community Awards on [our community website](https://community.astro.build).

## Showcase

### Content

Because you can never get tired of watching and reading Astro Content.

- 📄 [How to create a sticky changelog with Tailwind and Astro](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sticky-changelog-with-tailwind-css-and-astrojs/)	by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [How to create a dynamic feature grid with Astrojs and Tailwind CSS](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-dynamic-feature-grid-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [eCommerce Store with Astro](https://crystallize.com/blog/building-ecommerce-with-astro) by @nebojsa_cookie_duster
- 📄 [How to create a sidebar navigation with Tailwind and Alpine](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sidebar-navigation-with-tailwindcss-and-alpine-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [How to create and print an invoice with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-and-print-an-invoice-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Serving Astro with Rust](https://www.yieldcode.blog/post/serving-astro-with-rust/)
- 📄 [create an interactive testimonial with Astro & Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-an-interactive-testimonial-with-astro-tailwind-css-and-alpine-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Going Full-stack on Astro with Cloudflare D1 and Drizzle](https://kevinkipp.com/blog/going-full-stack-on-astro-with-cloudflare-d1-and-drizzle/) by @third774
- 🎧 [Astro Launches an Integrated Database](https://shoptalkshow.com/607/)		
- 📺 [integrate Sanity into Astro](https://twitter.com/simeonGriggs/status/1768690041314824319)	by Simeon Griggs
- 📄 [Creating a Guestbook with Astro DB](https://ryantrimble.com/blog/creating-a-guestbook-with-astro-db/)		
- 📄 [Things I've worked on at Astro in 2023](https://erika.florist/articles/thingsiveworkedonatastro2023/) by @princesseuh
- 📄 [Using Astro and Server-Sent Events (SSE) to Build Realtime In-App Notifications](https://www.koyeb.com/tutorials/using-astro-and-server-sent-events-sse-to-build-realtime-in-app-notifications)	by @rishirajjain
- 📺 [The Astro Community: where contributors find a home](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TtRtkTzHVBU)	by @withastro
- 📺 [Astro’s Big Announcement!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yq1uD3pjhM4)	by @chrispennington
- 📄 [Exploring Astro DB](https://dev.to/rosnovsky/exploring-astro-db-2d89) by @rosnovsky
- 📄 [Adding resumability to Astro with Qwik](https://developers.netlify.com/guides/adding-resumability-to-astro-with-qwik/) by @pauliescanlon
- 📄 [the Framework Field Guide](https://unicorn-utterances.com/collections/framework-field-guide-fundamentals) by @crutchcorn
- 📄 [How to create animated blog cards with Astrojs and Tailwind CSS](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-animated-blog-cards-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Dynamic footer date for static websites](https://astro-tips.dev/recipes/dynamic-footer-date-for-static-websites/) by @florian_lefebvre
- 📄 [Deploy Astro to AWS Amplify](https://www.launchfa.st/blog/deploy-astro-aws-amplify) by @rishirajjain
- 📄 [How to simplify your code and avoid repeating your markup with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-simplify-your-code-and-avoid-repeating-your-markup-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Build your interface in Astro: Components](https://dev.to/dvalin99/build-your-interface-in-astro-components-2gng)
- 📄 [An Upgrade to the latest web technologies](https://shikhashikz.com/blog/an-upgrade-to-latest-web-technology/) by @nitinatshikhashikz
### Tips & Tools

The latest community-built utilities and integrations to help you build with Astro.

- [Template for Astro + TailwindCSS monorepo](https://github.com/solelychloe/astro-tailwind-monorepo) by @solelychloe
- [Astro db Lucia auth starter](https://github.com/ElianCodes/lucia-astrodb) by @ElianCodes
- [Discover your first Astro PR](https://astro-first-pr.zeabur.app/) by @liruifengv
- [Astro db Lucia auth Adapter](https://github.com/pilcrowOnPaper/lucia-adapter-astrodb) by @pilcrowonpaper
- [Astro Mastodon component](https://github.com/rosnovsky/astro-mastodon) by @rosnovsky

### Themes & Templates

Several new Astro themes were added & released this month. Try them out!

<ThemeGrid themes={['refo', 'gurido', 'resume04', 'resume03']} />

More themes:

- [theme.technomancy.dev](https://theme.technomancy.dev/) by @liltechnomancer
- [clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app](https://clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app/) by @rush2jay

### Websites

All the community member websites submitted to our Discord `#showcase` channel and featured on community calls this month.

export const sites = [
	{ url: 'https://travelcraft-wheat.vercel.app/', title: '@monikossa'},
	{ url: 'https://www.luckygenius.ai/', title: '@opus131'},
	{ url: 'https://animeif.netlify.app/', title: '@infinite_programmer'},
	{ url: 'https://borgesmj-portfolio.netlify.app/', title: '@borgesmj'},
	{ url: 'https://letitgo-shop.vercel.app/', title: '@monikossa'},
	{ url: 'https://zgela.services/', title: '@vdrnn'},
	{ url: 'https://carnetsvanille.com/', title: '@neitsa.bes'},
	{ url: 'https://minpluto.org/en/', title: '@sudovanilla'},
	{ url: 'https://memoria-ten.vercel.app/', title: '@monikossa'},
	{ url: 'https://loquierasono.democracia.com.es/', title: '@aitor451'},
	{ url: 'https://futrloggr.vercel.app/', title: '@xylis_'},
	{ url: 'https://unfoldgently.com/', title: '@jonoces'},
	{ url: 'https://stdpi.work/', title: '@stdpi'},
	{ url: 'https://johnsolly.dev/', title: '@jsolly'},
	{ url: 'https://vilop.com/', title: '@chris_leyva'},
	{ url: 'https://simotion.hu/', title: '@petrovicz'},
	{ url: 'https://tailpool.vercel.app/', title: '@tarik_wpplumber'},
	{ url: 'https://www.vg.no/', title: '@johand'},
	{ url: 'https://thefamilia.vercel.app/', title: '@monikossa'},
	{ url: 'https://travelcraft-wheat.vercel.app/', title: '@monikossa'},
	{ url: 'https://www.luckygenius.ai', title: '@opus131'},
	{ url: 'https://kulpinski.dev/', title: '@piotrkulpinski'},
	{ url: 'https://gautamvaishnav.vercel.app/', title: '@gautamvaishnav'},
	{ url: 'https://ep2024.europython.eu/', title: '@patrick.py'},
	{ url: 'https://art.tricked.dev/', title: '@tricked.'},
	{ url: 'https://flexilla-docs.vercel.app/', title: '@johnkat_mj'},
	{ url: 'https://astrolicious.dev/blog/hello-world', title: '@alexanderniebuhr'},
	{ url: 'https://piccalil.li/',title: '@leannecodes'},
	{ url: 'https://ryanfurrer.com/', title: '@ryandotfurrer'},
	{ url: 'https://www.ibrahimo.dev/', title: '@ibodev'},
	{ url: 'https://thiti.dev/', title: '@thiti.y'},
	{ url: 'https://jeremylondon.com/', title: '@jeremy'},
	{ url: 'https://thegoatlifefilm.com/', title: '@sanjayrjs'},
	{ url: 'https://astro-blog-db1703.netlify.app/', title: '@skywalker.db'},
	{ url: 'https://www.robcipolla.co.uk/', title: 'robcipolla.'},
	{ url: 'https://mikuhl.me/', title: 'mikuhl_'},
	{ url: 'https://legrostonneau-festival.fr/', title: 'colir_'},
	{ url: 'https://gu.illau.me/', title: 'edo999'},
];

<ShowcaseGrid items={sites} />

### Starlight in the wild

export const starlightSites = [
	{ url: 'https://docs.atuin.sh/', title: 'Atuin'},
	{ url: 'https://bibtex.eu/', title: 'Bibtex'},
	{ url: 'https://bloclibrary.dev', title: 'Bloclibrary'},
	{ url: 'https://codefori.github.io/docs/', title: 'Codefori'},
	{ url: 'https://docs.astronvim.com/', title: 'astronvim'},
	{ url: 'https://docs.bebop.sh/', title: 'Bepop'},
	{ url: 'https://screenshotone.com/docs/', title: 'Screenshot One'},
	{ url: 'https://sammccord.github.io/solid-pixi/', title: 'solid-pixi'},
	{ url: 'https://guides.jbrains.ca/', title: 'Guides by jbrains_'},
	{ url: 'https://astro-i18n.netlify.app/', title: 'astro-18n'},
	{ url: 'https://astro-tips.dev/', title: 'astro-tips'},
	{ url: 'https://ion.sst.dev/', title: 'Ion' },
	{ url: 'https://stellar-theme.netlify.app/', title: 'prerad' },
	{ url: 'https://www.zvm.app/', title: 'zig version manager'}
];

<ShowcaseGrid items={starlightSites} />

*Want to be on this list next month? Post your Astro websites, projects, apps, tools, blog posts, demos, and videos in our `#showcase` channel in [our Discord](https://astro.build/chat)!*

Commit message:

chore: add YouTube video as Embed

src/content/blog/whats-new-march-2024.mdx, after:

---
title: "What's new in Astro - March 2024"
description: "March 2024 - Astro Studio, Astro Developer Portal and so much more"
publishDate: "March 31, 2024"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-shared.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-march-2024/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---
import ShowcaseGrid from './_whats-new-components/ShowcaseGrid.astro';
import ThemeGrid from './_whats-new-components/ThemeGrid.astro';
import { YouTube } from '@astro-community/astro-embed-youtube';

A month full of releases, Astro Studio, Astro Developer Portal, and so much more. Let's dive in!

## Updates from Mission Control

- [Astro Studio](https://studio.astro.build) is finally here! 🚀
- We launched the all new [Astro Developer Portal](/blog/dev-portal)! 🎉
- All tests in Astro have been [migrated to `node:test`](/blog/node-test-migration/)

## Releases

- Astro [4.5](https://astro.build/blog/astro-450/)
- The first release of [`astro:db`](blog/astro-db-deep-dive/)
- Starlight [0.21](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.21.0)

## Docs

This month, we added a new [Upgrade Astro](https://docs.astro.build/en/upgrade-astro/) page to the docs that includes all kinds of guidance on how, when, and why to upgrade to the latest version, including an explanation of Astro's semantic versioning from our platform team. If you ever wondered what all the different numbers in our release versions meant, we've now
got you covered!

Our weekly Discord call “Talking and Doc’ing” is a chance for you to watch Team Docs work in public, jump in a shared Codespace or Gitpod Workspace, and contribute to the docs live, together. This month’s topics included:

- Updating our [community website](https://community.astro.build) with all of our past community award winners going back to the very beginning, giving us a chance to test a new pagination component.
- Adding our new `<Steps />` component to the entire Build a Blog beginner tutorial, and reminding ourselves that not *every* numbered list is a set of instructions to follow.
- Helping a brand new Astro-focused tips and resource site get off the ground, using Starlight to present high quality Astro content like recipes, tutorials and guide.

## Community

Astro wouldn’t be what it is without its community. From Discord support, to documentation improvements, to translations, to code contributions, Astro welcomes it all.

Hear some of our past community award winners share what it's like contributing to Astro, and see for yourself what makes the Astro experience so special. 

<YouTube id='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TtRtkTzHVBU' />

### Community Awards February

These are some of the people who went above and beyond last month to make all our lives just a little (or a lot!) better:

- 🌟 $500 to @mingjunlu for contributing to all aspects of the Astro project and community including support, translations, migrating tests and fixing issues.
- 🍾 $250 to @ktym4a for contributions to the Astro ecosystem, including core and integrations.
- 🎈 $250 to @jackshelton Shelton for outstanding leadership and community support with the QwikDev/astro integration.
- 🎊 $250 to @soslan117 for their enthusiastic contributions translating Astro Docs into Russian.
- 🎉 $250 to @bryceguy for creating several popular community packages and leadership in community support.

👕 ✨ Swag shop merch issued this month to @tigger_hyk, @nathanlawsn, and @sergios1630 !

Check them out and learn more about the Astro Community Awards on [our community website](https://community.astro.build).

## Showcase

### Content

Because you can never get tired of watching and reading Astro Content.

- 📄 [How to create a sticky changelog with Tailwind and Astro](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sticky-changelog-with-tailwind-css-and-astrojs/)	by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [How to create a dynamic feature grid with Astrojs and Tailwind CSS](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-dynamic-feature-grid-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [eCommerce Store with Astro](https://crystallize.com/blog/building-ecommerce-with-astro) by @nebojsa_cookie_duster
- 📄 [How to create a sidebar navigation with Tailwind and Alpine](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sidebar-navigation-with-tailwindcss-and-alpine-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [How to create and print an invoice with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-and-print-an-invoice-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Serving Astro with Rust](https://www.yieldcode.blog/post/serving-astro-with-rust/)
- 📄 [create an interactive testimonial with Astro & Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-an-interactive-testimonial-with-astro-tailwind-css-and-alpine-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Going Full-stack on Astro with Cloudflare D1 and Drizzle](https://kevinkipp.com/blog/going-full-stack-on-astro-with-cloudflare-d1-and-drizzle/) by @third774
- 🎧 [Astro Launches an Integrated Database](https://shoptalkshow.com/607/)		
- 📺 [integrate Sanity into Astro](https://twitter.com/simeonGriggs/status/1768690041314824319)	by Simeon Griggs
- 📄 [Creating a Guestbook with Astro DB](https://ryantrimble.com/blog/creating-a-guestbook-with-astro-db/)		
- 📄 [Things I've worked on at Astro in 2023](https://erika.florist/articles/thingsiveworkedonatastro2023/) by @princesseuh
- 📄 [Using Astro and Server-Sent Events (SSE) to Build Realtime In-App Notifications](https://www.koyeb.com/tutorials/using-astro-and-server-sent-events-sse-to-build-realtime-in-app-notifications)	by @rishirajjain
- 📺 [The Astro Community: where contributors find a home](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TtRtkTzHVBU)	by @withastro
- 📺 [Astro’s Big Announcement!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yq1uD3pjhM4)	by @chrispennington
- 📄 [Exploring Astro DB](https://dev.to/rosnovsky/exploring-astro-db-2d89) by @rosnovsky
- 📄 [Adding resumability to Astro with Qwik](https://developers.netlify.com/guides/adding-resumability-to-astro-with-qwik/) by @pauliescanlon
- 📄 [the Framework Field Guide](https://unicorn-utterances.com/collections/framework-field-guide-fundamentals) by @crutchcorn
- 📄 [How to create animated blog cards with Astrojs and Tailwind CSS](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-animated-blog-cards-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Dynamic footer date for static websites](https://astro-tips.dev/recipes/dynamic-footer-date-for-static-websites/) by @florian_lefebvre
- 📄 [Deploy Astro to AWS Amplify](https://www.launchfa.st/blog/deploy-astro-aws-amplify) by @rishirajjain
- 📄 [How to simplify your code and avoid repeating your markup with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-simplify-your-code-and-avoid-repeating-your-markup-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Build your interface in Astro: Components](https://dev.to/dvalin99/build-your-interface-in-astro-components-2gng)
- 📄 [An Upgrade to the latest web technologies](https://shikhashikz.com/blog/an-upgrade-to-latest-web-technology/) by @nitinatshikhashikz

### Tips & Tools

The latest community-built utilities and integrations to help you build with Astro.

- [Template for Astro + TailwindCSS monorepo](https://github.com/solelychloe/astro-tailwind-monorepo) by @solelychloe
- [Astro db Lucia auth starter](https://github.com/ElianCodes/lucia-astrodb) by @ElianCodes
- [Discover your first Astro PR](https://astro-first-pr.zeabur.app/) by @liruifengv
- [Astro db Lucia auth Adapter](https://github.com/pilcrowOnPaper/lucia-adapter-astrodb) by @pilcrowonpaper
- [Astro Mastodon component](https://github.com/rosnovsky/astro-mastodon) by @rosnovsky

### Themes & Templates

Several new Astro themes were added & released this month. Try them out!

<ThemeGrid themes={['refo', 'gurido', 'resume04', 'resume03']} />

More themes:

- [theme.technomancy.dev](https://theme.technomancy.dev/) by @liltechnomancer
- [clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app](https://clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app/) by @rush2jay

### Websites

All the community member websites submitted to our Discord `#showcase` channel and featured on community calls this month.

export const sites = [
	{ url: 'https://travelcraft-wheat.vercel.app/', title: '@monikossa'},
	{ url: 'https://www.luckygenius.ai/', title: '@opus131'},
	{ url: 'https://animeif.netlify.app/', title: '@infinite_programmer'},
	{ url: 'https://borgesmj-portfolio.netlify.app/', title: '@borgesmj'},
	{ url: 'https://letitgo-shop.vercel.app/', title: '@monikossa'},
	{ url: 'https://zgela.services/', title: '@vdrnn'},
	{ url: 'https://carnetsvanille.com/', title: '@neitsa.bes'},
	{ url: 'https://minpluto.org/en/', title: '@sudovanilla'},
	{ url: 'https://memoria-ten.vercel.app/', title: '@monikossa'},
	{ url: 'https://loquierasono.democracia.com.es/', title: '@aitor451'},
	{ url: 'https://futrloggr.vercel.app/', title: '@xylis_'},
	{ url: 'https://unfoldgently.com/', title: '@jonoces'},
	{ url: 'https://stdpi.work/', title: '@stdpi'},
	{ url: 'https://johnsolly.dev/', title: '@jsolly'},
	{ url: 'https://vilop.com/', title: '@chris_leyva'},
	{ url: 'https://simotion.hu/', title: '@petrovicz'},
	{ url: 'https://tailpool.vercel.app/', title: '@tarik_wpplumber'},
	{ url: 'https://www.vg.no/', title: '@johand'},
	{ url: 'https://thefamilia.vercel.app/', title: '@monikossa'},
	{ url: 'https://travelcraft-wheat.vercel.app/', title: '@monikossa'},
	{ url: 'https://www.luckygenius.ai', title: '@opus131'},
	{ url: 'https://kulpinski.dev/', title: '@piotrkulpinski'},
	{ url: 'https://gautamvaishnav.vercel.app/', title: '@gautamvaishnav'},
	{ url: 'https://ep2024.europython.eu/', title: '@patrick.py'},
	{ url: 'https://art.tricked.dev/', title: '@tricked.'},
	{ url: 'https://flexilla-docs.vercel.app/', title: '@johnkat_mj'},
	{ url: 'https://astrolicious.dev/blog/hello-world', title: '@alexanderniebuhr'},
	{ url: 'https://piccalil.li/',title: '@leannecodes'},
	{ url: 'https://ryanfurrer.com/', title: '@ryandotfurrer'},
	{ url: 'https://www.ibrahimo.dev/', title: '@ibodev'},
	{ url: 'https://thiti.dev/', title: '@thiti.y'},
	{ url: 'https://jeremylondon.com/', title: '@jeremy'},
	{ url: 'https://thegoatlifefilm.com/', title: '@sanjayrjs'},
	{ url: 'https://astro-blog-db1703.netlify.app/', title: '@skywalker.db'},
	{ url: 'https://www.robcipolla.co.uk/', title: 'robcipolla.'},
	{ url: 'https://mikuhl.me/', title: 'mikuhl_'},
	{ url: 'https://legrostonneau-festival.fr/', title: 'colir_'},
	{ url: 'https://gu.illau.me/', title: 'edo999'},
];

<ShowcaseGrid items={sites} />

### Starlight in the wild

export const starlightSites = [
	{ url: 'https://docs.atuin.sh/', title: 'Atuin'},
	{ url: 'https://bibtex.eu/', title: 'Bibtex'},
	{ url: 'https://bloclibrary.dev', title: 'Bloclibrary'},
	{ url: 'https://codefori.github.io/docs/', title: 'Codefori'},
	{ url: 'https://docs.astronvim.com/', title: 'astronvim'},
	{ url: 'https://docs.bebop.sh/', title: 'Bepop'},
	{ url: 'https://screenshotone.com/docs/', title: 'Screenshot One'},
	{ url: 'https://sammccord.github.io/solid-pixi/', title: 'solid-pixi'},
	{ url: 'https://guides.jbrains.ca/', title: 'Guides by jbrains_'},
	{ url: 'https://astro-i18n.netlify.app/', title: 'astro-18n'},
	{ url: 'https://astro-tips.dev/', title: 'astro-tips'},
	{ url: 'https://ion.sst.dev/', title: 'Ion' },
	{ url: 'https://stellar-theme.netlify.app/', title: 'prerad' },
	{ url: 'https://www.zvm.app/', title: 'zig version manager'}
];

<ShowcaseGrid items={starlightSites} />

*Want to be on this list next month? Post your Astro websites, projects, apps, tools, blog posts, demos, and videos in our `#showcase` channel in [our Discord](https://astro.build/chat)!*
