src/content/blog/whats-new-february-2024.mdx, before:

---
title: "What's new in Astro - February 2024"
description: "Leap into Astro news with a bonus Februrary day!"
publishDate: "February 29, 2024"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-shared.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-february-2024/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---
import ShowcaseGrid from './_whats-new-components/ShowcaseGrid.astro';
import ThemeGrid from './_whats-new-components/ThemeGrid.astro';

Leap into Astro news with a bonus Februrary day!

## Updates from Mission Control

- We have a [new channel on Discord](https://astro.build/chat) `#events`, where you can share events happening, share when you’re live, and more.
- We started discussing an `ecosystem-ci` conversation on [Discord](/chat)
- We expanded the Astroverse a tiny bit further with the addition of [daily.dev](https://dly.to/u1jkve3OtCn)

## Releases

Save the date: [Astro Studio](https://studio.astro.build) launches March 12, and we have a whole week of festivities planned!

While you wait, catch up on Astro and Starlight core releases:

- Astro [4.3](https://astro.build/blog/astro-430/), [4.4](https://astro.build/blog/astro-440/)
- Starlight [0.18](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.18.0), [0.19](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.19.0), [0.20](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.20.0)

## Docs

This month Docs added two new guide pages to docs on adding [authentication](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/authentication/) and [e-commerce](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/ecommerce/) options to your Astro project! These are two popular features that people ask about, and we wanted to provide some basic guidance to get you started.

Our weekly Discord call “Talking and Doc’ing” is a chance for you to watch Team Docs work in public, jump in a shared Codespace or Gitpod Workspace, and contribute to the docs live, together. This month’s topics included:

- Part two of an epic PR to make docs URL paths consistent with the locations in the sidebar settings that included:
	- 📅 2 weeks.
	- 🕓 4 hours of live streaming.
	- 🧑‍🤝‍🧑 10 people in the same shared codebase at once
	- 🗃 678 files changed.
	- ✅ ALL CHECKS PASSED.
- Figuring out what a Starlight `<Steps />` component might look like. Just an ordered list? We think not!
- Exploring building in Astro's native i18n routing features to the default Starlight template.

## Community

### Welcome to our new Maintainers

[Fryuni](https://astro.badg.es/contributor/Fryuni/), [Oliver](https://astro.badg.es/contributor/OliverSpeir/), and [liruifengv](https://astro.badg.es/contributor/liruifengv/) have joined Astro as Maintainers!

Welcome! 🎉

### Community Awards January

- 🌟 $500 to Florian for leading and supporting our integration builders, and contributing to all aspects of the Astro project and community.
- 🍾 $250 to Oliver for shipping features in Astro core and providing helpful community support.
- 🎈 $250 to Kevin for consistent contributions to Starlight development
- 🎊 $250 to Happydev for tackling several Astro code issues, fixes and improvements.
- 🎉 $250 to Glad777 for exceptional community involvement in support and docs

Check them out and learn more about the Astro Community Awards on [our community website](https://community.astro.build).

## Showcase

### Content

Because you can never get tired of watching and reading Astro Content.

- 📄 [Migrating from Gatsby to Astro](https://logarithmicspirals.com/blog/migrating-from-gatsby-to-astro/) by @binalgebraical
- 📄 [How I use Notion and Astro to publish my monthly learnings](https://azan-n.com/projects/2024-02-08t091659138z/) by @azan_n
- 📄 [Using Weaviate's generative search with Astro for brainstorming](https://larryhudson.io/astro-weaviate-brainstorm/) by @larryhudson
- 📄 [Add diagrams to Starlight using D2](https://hideoo.dev/notes/starlight-add-diagrams-using-d2) by @hideoo
- 📄 [Dynamic components - Is it worth it?](https://dev.to/marcelluscaio/dynamic-components-is-it-worth-it-28m5) by @caiomarcellus
- 📄 [Fetching the latest YouTube videos in an Astro Component](https://techsquidtv.com/blog/astro-fetching-youtube-videos-with-rss/)
- 📺 [Deploy an Astro static site to DigitalOcean](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a6t93CFnmps) by @zacksiri
- 🎙️ [Simple Stack Streaming - Discussed on Front-end Fire](https://open.spotify.com/episode/6Y7RCXFJQtUxYGNXqemFw7)		
- 📄 [Adding Related Articles with Astro Content Collections](https://blog.codybrunner.com/2024/adding-related-articles-with-astro-content-collections/)	
- 📺 [You Don’t know How to SSR](https://portal.gitnation.org/contents/you-dont-know-how-to-ssr) by @ema
- 📄 [Seamles SPA Transitions Using the New View Transitions](https://semaphoreci.com/blog/view-transitions-api-astrojs)
- 📄 [Why I choose Astro for web app development](https://ryanfurrer.com/blog/my-experience-with-astro/) by Oren Farhi
- 📄 [My Experience with Astro](https://orizens.com/blog/why-i-chose-astro-for-web-app-dev-in-2024/) by Ryan Furrur
- 📺 [Quoi de neuf dans Astro](https://parlons-dev.com/episodes/quoi-de-neuf-dans-astro)
- 📄 [This Site Is Now Built with Astro](https://aqandrew.com/blog/now-built-with-astro/) by @aqandrew
- 📺 [Get Started with Directus and Astro](https://directus.io/tv/stack-up/astro)
- 📄 [Using Algolia with Astro Starlight](https://www.algolia.com/blog/engineering/algolia-docsearch-astro-starlight/) by @bholmesdev
- 🎙️ [Podrocket with Eddy Vinck](https://twitter.com/podrocketpod/status/1760351149440335877)by @eddyvinck
- 📄 [Introduction to Astro and Wordpress](https://dev.to/bngmnn/leveraging-wordpress-as-a-headless-cms-for-your-astro-website-a-comprehensive-guide-a4d) by @bngmnn
- 📄 [Building a documentation site using Astro Starlight](https://maciekpalmowski.dev/blog/building-a-documentation-site-using-astro-starlight/) by @palmiak
- 📄 [A talk on Islands Architecture](https://js-astro-islands-demo.netlify.app/) by @winterjoey
- 📄 [How to create animated images with TailwindCSS and Astro](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-animated-images-with-tailwind-css-and-astro-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Hands-On Experience: eCommerce Store with Astro?](https://crystallize.com/blog/building-ecommerce-with-astro)

### Tips & Tools

The latest community-built utilities and integrations to help you build with Astro.

- [Unpic](https://unpic.pics/blog/unpic-astro-image-service/) by @ascorbic.
- [florian-lefebvre/satori-astro](https://github.com/florian-lefebvre/satori-astro)
- [astro-clerk-auth](https://www.npmjs.com/package/astro-clerk-auth) by @elefcodes
- [Adammatthiesen/astro-commercejs](https://github.com/Adammatthiesen/astro-commercejs) by @adamm2047
- [inline-mod-astro](https://inox-tools.vercel.app/inline-mod) by @fryuni
- [JulianCataldo/og-images-generator](https://github.com/JulianCataldo/og-images-generator#astro-integration) by @juliancataldo
- [BryceRussell/astro-pages](https://github.com/BryceRussell/astro-pages) by @bryceguy
- [ktym4a/astro-page-insight](https://github.com/ktym4a/astro-page-insight) by @ktym4a
- [kindspells/astro-sri-scp](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kindspells/astro-sri-csp) by @andreu
- [Tiny toolbar app to show Tailwind Breakpoints](https://elk.zone/m.webtoo.ls/@zero_gravitas@indieweb.social/111925333428424557)	
- [frankstallone/astro-cube-boilerplate](https://github.com/frankstallone/astro-cube-boilerplate) by @frank_stallone
- [KindSpells/astro-shield](https://github.com/KindSpells/astro-shield) by @castarco
- [natemoo-re/astro-remote](https://github.com/natemoo-re/astro-remote)	by @nmoodev
- [Generate e-mails with Astro](https://github.com/luckydye/astro-email/tree/main) by @luckydye

### Themes & Templates

Several new Astro themes were added & released this month. Try them out!

- [Illustration based template](https://github.com/manulthanura/Illustration-Based-Portfolio) by @manulthanura
- [Astroplate](https://astro.build/themes/details/astroplate/) by @tffarhad
- [Quantum](https://cosmicthemes.com/themes/quantum/) by @lastchaos.
- [event-edge.gerome.dev](https://event-edge.gerome.dev/) by @gerome.dev
- [ScrewFast](https://github.com/mearashadowfax/ScrewFast) by @soslan
- [MinimalStudio, theme built with Astro, TailwindCSS and Alpine](https://minimalstudio.vercel.app/) by @mike_andreuzza
- [Resume website with TinaCMS](https://astro-resume02.vercel.app/) by @alpeshnakrani

### Websites

All the community member websites submitted to our Discord `#showcase` channel and featured on community calls this month.

export const sites = [
  { url: 'https://easy-csv.netlify.app/profile', title: '@christopheanfry'},
  { url: 'https://evadecker.com/hypersensitive', title: '@for.eva.new'},
  { url: 'https://warawul.coffee/en/', title: '@chris_origins_coffee'},
  { url: 'https://lindakat-arcade.netlify.app/', title: '@lindakat'},
  { url: 'https://daniell.dev/', title: '@daniellwdb'},
  { url: 'https://heschl.dev/', title: '@joneswastaken'},
  { url: 'https://www.benjamindorey.fr/', title: '@biommxx'},
  { url: 'https://pro-g.eu/', title: '@biommxx'},
  { url: 'https://hitesh.is-a.dev/', title: '@hitesh_dev'},
  { url: 'https://www.tekac.club/humans', title: '@emptybrother7'},
  { url: 'https://evadecker.com/design', title: '@for.eva.new'},
  { url: 'https://joelmturner.com/', title: '@joelmturner'},
  { url: 'https://hermes.cadens.studio/', title: '@cadens.studio'},
  { url: 'https://barvian.me/', title: '@mbarvian'},
  { url: 'https://www.deskpro.com/', title: '@mattheous'},
  { url: 'https://wybm-valentine.netlify.app/', title: '@withered.flowers'},
  { url: 'https://www.thatisrich.co.uk/', title: '@thatisrich'},
  { url: 'https://wallcreo.com/', title: '@stan.kukucka'},
  { url: 'https://osteopathe-le-thor.fr/', title: '@arnaud_83976'},
  { url: 'https://dan-portoflio-v3.vercel.app/', title: '@rythmlord'},
  { url: 'https://www.xypnox.com/blag/posts/themescura/introducing-themescura/', title: '@xypnox'},
  { url: 'https://photosite-3cw.pages.dev/', title: '@casungo'},
  { url: 'https://sanquirinoestudio.com.ar/', title: '@.wateredplant'},
  { url: 'https://suplovers.co/', title: '@alejostereo'},
  { url: 'https://gitarchived.org/', title: '@thebigbot'},
  { url: 'https://www.arjancodes.com/', title: '@santiago6916'},
  { url: 'https://pdx-food-weeks.vercel.app/', title: '@joelmturner'},
  { url: 'https://www.helmerdavila.com/', title: '@dynamo_dev_99'},
  { url: 'https://lakelimbo.github.io/', title: '@lakelimbo'},
  { url: 'https://aperofrancophone.com/', title: '@marvinkr'},
  { url: 'https://www.karelvo.com/', title: '@karel5743'},
  { url: 'https://anuwong.com/', title: '@anuwong'},
  { url: 'https://k16e.co/', title: '@k16e.co'},
  { url: 'https://wordclues.com/', title: '@plinpod'},
  { url: 'https://gitter.im/'},
  { url: 'https://freestuff.dev/'},
  { url: 'https://overlayed.dev/', title: '@hacksore'},
  { url: 'https://5pin-talk.ca/', title: '@jbrains_'},
  { url: 'https://upshot.dev/', title: '@khaya_zulu'},
  { url: 'https://prodkt.cloud/', title: '@prodkt'},
  { url: 'https://soulrest.melos.church/', title: '@cameronpak'},
  { url: 'https://designzen.co/', title: '@frank_stallone'},
  { url: 'https://newsletter.howd.dev/posts/01-gus-moxie/', title: '@bonniedotdev'},
  { url: 'https://www.mickeymarse.dev/', title: '@mickeymarse'},
  { url: 'https://mingjun.lu/blog', title: '@mingjunlu'},
  { url: 'https://coderdiaz.com/', title: '@coderdiaz'},
  { url: 'https://streamdal.com/', title: '@dosplatos'},
  { url: 'https://moyadaniel.com/', title: '@rythmlord'},
  { url: 'https://eva.town/projects/boundaries-map', title: "@for.eva.new"},
  { url: 'https://eva.town/projects/commonplace', title: "@for.eva.new"},
  { url: 'https://futrloggr.vercel.app/', title: '@xylis_'},
  { url: 'loquierasono.democracia.com.es', title: "@aitor"},
  { url: 'https://memoria-ten.vercel.app/', title: "@monikossa"},
  { url: ''}
];

<ShowcaseGrid items={sites} />

### Starlight in the wild

Take a peek at the new Starlight sites that we discovered this month.

export const starlightSites = [
{ url: 'https://codegenie.codes/', title: '@brett.codegenie_06005'},
{ url: 'https://sloth-pipe.vercel.app/', title: 'tvswgnr]'},
{ url: 'https://letsar.github.io/state_watcher/', title: 'letsar'},
{ url: 'https://beta.learning.nicholasdwest.com/', title: '@ndw0009'},
{ url: 'https://eddienubes.github.io/sagetest/', title: 'eddienubes'},
{ url: 'https://astro-snipcart.vercel.app/', title: 'lloydjatkinson'},
{ url: 'https://zanobijs.vercel.app/', title: 'devdroide'},
{ url: 'https://vue-simple-dnd.netlify.app/', title: '@florian_lefebvre'},
{ url: 'https://www.waterfox.net/', title: '@aks15501'},
{ url: 'https://thehangedmanpub.netlify.app/', title: '@enigmalea'},
{ url: 'https://vinoth.info/react-sketch-canvas/', title: 'vinothpandian'},
{ url: 'https://developer.fashionunited.com/', title: 'FashionUnited'},
{ url: 'https://onerepo.tools/', title: '@paularmstrong.dev '},
{ url: 'https://rnr-docs.vercel.app', title: '@mrzachnugent'},
{ url: 'https://docs-nodehive-com.vercel.app/', title: 'NETNODE AG'},
{ url: 'https://discord-hono.luis.fun/', title: 'LuisFun'},
];

<ShowcaseGrid items={starlightSites} />

*Want to be on this list next month? Post your Astro websites, projects, apps, tools, blog posts, demos, and videos in our `#showcase` channel in [our Discord](https://astro.build/chat)!*

Commit message:

more info in Mission control bullet points

src/content/blog/whats-new-february-2024.mdx, after:

---
title: "What's new in Astro - February 2024"
description: "Leap into Astro news with a bonus Februrary day!"
publishDate: "February 29, 2024"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-shared.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-february-2024/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---
import ShowcaseGrid from './_whats-new-components/ShowcaseGrid.astro';
import ThemeGrid from './_whats-new-components/ThemeGrid.astro';

Leap into Astro news with a bonus Februrary day!

## Updates from Mission Control

- We have a [new channel on Discord](https://astro.build/chat) `#events`, where you can share events happening, share when you’re live, and more.
- We [discussed creating an `ecosystem-ci`](https://discord.com/channels/830184174198718474/1204369341642973185) to provide early warnings and automatic notifications to integration and theme authors about Astro updates including potential breaking changes.
- We expanded the Astroverse to [daily.dev](https://dly.to/u1jkve3OtCn): updates, releases, showcase items, and more. Another way to get your Astro news and interact with the community. Visit @astrodotbuild and join our squad!

## Releases

Save the date: [Astro Studio](https://studio.astro.build) launches March 12, and we have a whole week of festivities planned!

While you wait, catch up on Astro and Starlight core releases:

- Astro [4.3](https://astro.build/blog/astro-430/), [4.4](https://astro.build/blog/astro-440/)
- Starlight [0.18](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.18.0), [0.19](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.19.0), [0.20](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.20.0)

## Docs

This month Docs added two new guide pages to docs on adding [authentication](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/authentication/) and [e-commerce](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/ecommerce/) options to your Astro project! These are two popular features that people ask about, and we wanted to provide some basic guidance to get you started.

Our weekly Discord call “Talking and Doc’ing” is a chance for you to watch Team Docs work in public, jump in a shared Codespace or Gitpod Workspace, and contribute to the docs live, together. This month’s topics included:

- Part two of an epic PR to make docs URL paths consistent with the locations in the sidebar settings that included:
	- 📅 2 weeks.
	- 🕓 4 hours of live streaming.
	- 🧑‍🤝‍🧑 10 people in the same shared codebase at once
	- 🗃 678 files changed.
	- ✅ ALL CHECKS PASSED.
- Figuring out what a Starlight `<Steps />` component might look like. Just an ordered list? We think not!
- Exploring building in Astro's native i18n routing features to the default Starlight template.

## Community

### Welcome to our new Maintainers

[Fryuni](https://astro.badg.es/contributor/Fryuni/), [Oliver](https://astro.badg.es/contributor/OliverSpeir/), and [liruifengv](https://astro.badg.es/contributor/liruifengv/) have joined Astro as Maintainers!

Welcome! 🎉

### Community Awards January

- 🌟 $500 to Florian for leading and supporting our integration builders, and contributing to all aspects of the Astro project and community.
- 🍾 $250 to Oliver for shipping features in Astro core and providing helpful community support.
- 🎈 $250 to Kevin for consistent contributions to Starlight development
- 🎊 $250 to Happydev for tackling several Astro code issues, fixes and improvements.
- 🎉 $250 to Glad777 for exceptional community involvement in support and docs

Check them out and learn more about the Astro Community Awards on [our community website](https://community.astro.build).

## Showcase

### Content

Because you can never get tired of watching and reading Astro Content.

- 📄 [Migrating from Gatsby to Astro](https://logarithmicspirals.com/blog/migrating-from-gatsby-to-astro/) by @binalgebraical
- 📄 [How I use Notion and Astro to publish my monthly learnings](https://azan-n.com/projects/2024-02-08t091659138z/) by @azan_n
- 📄 [Using Weaviate's generative search with Astro for brainstorming](https://larryhudson.io/astro-weaviate-brainstorm/) by @larryhudson
- 📄 [Add diagrams to Starlight using D2](https://hideoo.dev/notes/starlight-add-diagrams-using-d2) by @hideoo
- 📄 [Dynamic components - Is it worth it?](https://dev.to/marcelluscaio/dynamic-components-is-it-worth-it-28m5) by @caiomarcellus
- 📄 [Fetching the latest YouTube videos in an Astro Component](https://techsquidtv.com/blog/astro-fetching-youtube-videos-with-rss/)
- 📺 [Deploy an Astro static site to DigitalOcean](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a6t93CFnmps) by @zacksiri
- 🎙️ [Simple Stack Streaming - Discussed on Front-end Fire](https://open.spotify.com/episode/6Y7RCXFJQtUxYGNXqemFw7)		
- 📄 [Adding Related Articles with Astro Content Collections](https://blog.codybrunner.com/2024/adding-related-articles-with-astro-content-collections/)	
- 📺 [You Don’t know How to SSR](https://portal.gitnation.org/contents/you-dont-know-how-to-ssr) by @ema
- 📄 [Seamles SPA Transitions Using the New View Transitions](https://semaphoreci.com/blog/view-transitions-api-astrojs)
- 📄 [Why I choose Astro for web app development](https://ryanfurrer.com/blog/my-experience-with-astro/) by Oren Farhi
- 📄 [My Experience with Astro](https://orizens.com/blog/why-i-chose-astro-for-web-app-dev-in-2024/) by Ryan Furrur
- 📺 [Quoi de neuf dans Astro](https://parlons-dev.com/episodes/quoi-de-neuf-dans-astro)
- 📄 [This Site Is Now Built with Astro](https://aqandrew.com/blog/now-built-with-astro/) by @aqandrew
- 📺 [Get Started with Directus and Astro](https://directus.io/tv/stack-up/astro)
- 📄 [Using Algolia with Astro Starlight](https://www.algolia.com/blog/engineering/algolia-docsearch-astro-starlight/) by @bholmesdev
- 🎙️ [Podrocket with Eddy Vinck](https://twitter.com/podrocketpod/status/1760351149440335877)by @eddyvinck
- 📄 [Introduction to Astro and Wordpress](https://dev.to/bngmnn/leveraging-wordpress-as-a-headless-cms-for-your-astro-website-a-comprehensive-guide-a4d) by @bngmnn
- 📄 [Building a documentation site using Astro Starlight](https://maciekpalmowski.dev/blog/building-a-documentation-site-using-astro-starlight/) by @palmiak
- 📄 [A talk on Islands Architecture](https://js-astro-islands-demo.netlify.app/) by @winterjoey
- 📄 [How to create animated images with TailwindCSS and Astro](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-animated-images-with-tailwind-css-and-astro-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Hands-On Experience: eCommerce Store with Astro?](https://crystallize.com/blog/building-ecommerce-with-astro)

### Tips & Tools

The latest community-built utilities and integrations to help you build with Astro.

- [Unpic](https://unpic.pics/blog/unpic-astro-image-service/) by @ascorbic.
- [florian-lefebvre/satori-astro](https://github.com/florian-lefebvre/satori-astro)
- [astro-clerk-auth](https://www.npmjs.com/package/astro-clerk-auth) by @elefcodes
- [Adammatthiesen/astro-commercejs](https://github.com/Adammatthiesen/astro-commercejs) by @adamm2047
- [inline-mod-astro](https://inox-tools.vercel.app/inline-mod) by @fryuni
- [JulianCataldo/og-images-generator](https://github.com/JulianCataldo/og-images-generator#astro-integration) by @juliancataldo
- [BryceRussell/astro-pages](https://github.com/BryceRussell/astro-pages) by @bryceguy
- [ktym4a/astro-page-insight](https://github.com/ktym4a/astro-page-insight) by @ktym4a
- [kindspells/astro-sri-scp](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kindspells/astro-sri-csp) by @andreu
- [Tiny toolbar app to show Tailwind Breakpoints](https://elk.zone/m.webtoo.ls/@zero_gravitas@indieweb.social/111925333428424557)	
- [frankstallone/astro-cube-boilerplate](https://github.com/frankstallone/astro-cube-boilerplate) by @frank_stallone
- [KindSpells/astro-shield](https://github.com/KindSpells/astro-shield) by @castarco
- [natemoo-re/astro-remote](https://github.com/natemoo-re/astro-remote)	by @nmoodev
- [Generate e-mails with Astro](https://github.com/luckydye/astro-email/tree/main) by @luckydye

### Themes & Templates

Several new Astro themes were added & released this month. Try them out!

- [Illustration based template](https://github.com/manulthanura/Illustration-Based-Portfolio) by @manulthanura
- [Astroplate](https://astro.build/themes/details/astroplate/) by @tffarhad
- [Quantum](https://cosmicthemes.com/themes/quantum/) by @lastchaos.
- [event-edge.gerome.dev](https://event-edge.gerome.dev/) by @gerome.dev
- [ScrewFast](https://github.com/mearashadowfax/ScrewFast) by @soslan
- [MinimalStudio, theme built with Astro, TailwindCSS and Alpine](https://minimalstudio.vercel.app/) by @mike_andreuzza
- [Resume website with TinaCMS](https://astro-resume02.vercel.app/) by @alpeshnakrani

### Websites

All the community member websites submitted to our Discord `#showcase` channel and featured on community calls this month.

export const sites = [
  { url: 'https://easy-csv.netlify.app/profile', title: '@christopheanfry'},
  { url: 'https://evadecker.com/hypersensitive', title: '@for.eva.new'},
  { url: 'https://warawul.coffee/en/', title: '@chris_origins_coffee'},
  { url: 'https://lindakat-arcade.netlify.app/', title: '@lindakat'},
  { url: 'https://daniell.dev/', title: '@daniellwdb'},
  { url: 'https://heschl.dev/', title: '@joneswastaken'},
  { url: 'https://www.benjamindorey.fr/', title: '@biommxx'},
  { url: 'https://pro-g.eu/', title: '@biommxx'},
  { url: 'https://hitesh.is-a.dev/', title: '@hitesh_dev'},
  { url: 'https://www.tekac.club/humans', title: '@emptybrother7'},
  { url: 'https://evadecker.com/design', title: '@for.eva.new'},
  { url: 'https://joelmturner.com/', title: '@joelmturner'},
  { url: 'https://hermes.cadens.studio/', title: '@cadens.studio'},
  { url: 'https://barvian.me/', title: '@mbarvian'},
  { url: 'https://www.deskpro.com/', title: '@mattheous'},
  { url: 'https://wybm-valentine.netlify.app/', title: '@withered.flowers'},
  { url: 'https://www.thatisrich.co.uk/', title: '@thatisrich'},
  { url: 'https://wallcreo.com/', title: '@stan.kukucka'},
  { url: 'https://osteopathe-le-thor.fr/', title: '@arnaud_83976'},
  { url: 'https://dan-portoflio-v3.vercel.app/', title: '@rythmlord'},
  { url: 'https://www.xypnox.com/blag/posts/themescura/introducing-themescura/', title: '@xypnox'},
  { url: 'https://photosite-3cw.pages.dev/', title: '@casungo'},
  { url: 'https://sanquirinoestudio.com.ar/', title: '@.wateredplant'},
  { url: 'https://suplovers.co/', title: '@alejostereo'},
  { url: 'https://gitarchived.org/', title: '@thebigbot'},
  { url: 'https://www.arjancodes.com/', title: '@santiago6916'},
  { url: 'https://pdx-food-weeks.vercel.app/', title: '@joelmturner'},
  { url: 'https://www.helmerdavila.com/', title: '@dynamo_dev_99'},
  { url: 'https://lakelimbo.github.io/', title: '@lakelimbo'},
  { url: 'https://aperofrancophone.com/', title: '@marvinkr'},
  { url: 'https://www.karelvo.com/', title: '@karel5743'},
  { url: 'https://anuwong.com/', title: '@anuwong'},
  { url: 'https://k16e.co/', title: '@k16e.co'},
  { url: 'https://wordclues.com/', title: '@plinpod'},
  { url: 'https://gitter.im/'},
  { url: 'https://freestuff.dev/'},
  { url: 'https://overlayed.dev/', title: '@hacksore'},
  { url: 'https://5pin-talk.ca/', title: '@jbrains_'},
  { url: 'https://upshot.dev/', title: '@khaya_zulu'},
  { url: 'https://prodkt.cloud/', title: '@prodkt'},
  { url: 'https://soulrest.melos.church/', title: '@cameronpak'},
  { url: 'https://designzen.co/', title: '@frank_stallone'},
  { url: 'https://newsletter.howd.dev/posts/01-gus-moxie/', title: '@bonniedotdev'},
  { url: 'https://www.mickeymarse.dev/', title: '@mickeymarse'},
  { url: 'https://mingjun.lu/blog', title: '@mingjunlu'},
  { url: 'https://coderdiaz.com/', title: '@coderdiaz'},
  { url: 'https://streamdal.com/', title: '@dosplatos'},
  { url: 'https://moyadaniel.com/', title: '@rythmlord'},
  { url: 'https://eva.town/projects/boundaries-map', title: "@for.eva.new"},
  { url: 'https://eva.town/projects/commonplace', title: "@for.eva.new"},
  { url: 'https://futrloggr.vercel.app/', title: '@xylis_'},
  { url: 'loquierasono.democracia.com.es', title: "@aitor"},
  { url: 'https://memoria-ten.vercel.app/', title: "@monikossa"},
  { url: ''}
];

<ShowcaseGrid items={sites} />

### Starlight in the wild

Take a peek at the new Starlight sites that we discovered this month.

export const starlightSites = [
{ url: 'https://codegenie.codes/', title: '@brett.codegenie_06005'},
{ url: 'https://sloth-pipe.vercel.app/', title: 'tvswgnr]'},
{ url: 'https://letsar.github.io/state_watcher/', title: 'letsar'},
{ url: 'https://beta.learning.nicholasdwest.com/', title: '@ndw0009'},
{ url: 'https://eddienubes.github.io/sagetest/', title: 'eddienubes'},
{ url: 'https://astro-snipcart.vercel.app/', title: 'lloydjatkinson'},
{ url: 'https://zanobijs.vercel.app/', title: 'devdroide'},
{ url: 'https://vue-simple-dnd.netlify.app/', title: '@florian_lefebvre'},
{ url: 'https://www.waterfox.net/', title: '@aks15501'},
{ url: 'https://thehangedmanpub.netlify.app/', title: '@enigmalea'},
{ url: 'https://vinoth.info/react-sketch-canvas/', title: 'vinothpandian'},
{ url: 'https://developer.fashionunited.com/', title: 'FashionUnited'},
{ url: 'https://onerepo.tools/', title: '@paularmstrong.dev '},
{ url: 'https://rnr-docs.vercel.app', title: '@mrzachnugent'},
{ url: 'https://docs-nodehive-com.vercel.app/', title: 'NETNODE AG'},
{ url: 'https://discord-hono.luis.fun/', title: 'LuisFun'},
];

<ShowcaseGrid items={starlightSites} />

*Want to be on this list next month? Post your Astro websites, projects, apps, tools, blog posts, demos, and videos in our `#showcase` channel in [our Discord](https://astro.build/chat)!*
