src/content/blog/whats-new-december-2023.mdx, before:

---
title: "What's new in Astro - December 2023"
description: "December: last month of the year, a time to reflect on all the amazing things we've shipped, including Astro 4.0!"
publishDate: "December 31, 2023"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-shared.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-december-2023/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---

## Releases

Just in time for the end of the year, we released Astro 4.0!

- [Astro 4.0](https://github.com/withastro/astro/releases/tag/astro%404.0.0)
- [Starlight 0.15](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.15.0)

## Docs

The Astro Documentation is now running on Starlight!

We have also officially launched [Astro Docs Docs (AD²)](https://contribute.docs.astro.build) to help you contribute to docs! You'll find all kinds of information whether you're making your first open-source PR or a seasoned member of Team Docs.

Our weekly Discord call “Talking and Doc’ing” is a chance for you to watch Team Docs work in public, jump in a codespace, and contribute to the docs. This month’s topics included:

- Building a new header component for our integrations pages
- Establishing a community Glossary project
- Discussing how to write/standardize Changelog messages
- Adding a mini-showcase with links to themes using each CMS on our CMS guide pages
- Updating our integration docs to include MDX components and Expressive Code

## Community

### Community Awards November

- 🌟 $250 awarded to Atharva for significant contributions to Astro Docs and active community involvement.
- 🥳 $250 awarded to McFlyPartages for translating a significant portion of the Astro Docs into French.
- 🎉 $250 awarded to Hippo for exceptional work releasing, maintaining, and providing support for Expressive Code.
- 🍾 $250 awarded to Eva Decker for actively supporting the Astro Community on Discord.
- 🎊 $250 awarded to Jumper for being a super positive, welcoming and supportive presence in the Astro Discord.
- 🎁 $250 awarded to Happydev for significant work on the Astro Core code base.

Check them out or learn more about the Community Awards on [our community website](https://community.astro.build).

## Showcase

### Content

🚉 [Nuxt 2 to Astro 3 Replatforming – from Setup to Production](https://stevenwoodson.com/blog/replatforming-from-nuxtjs-2-to-astro/) by @stevenwoodson

🌴 [Quick-and-useful: A DIY, self-hosted Linktree and Linkinbio clone with Astro and TinaCMS](https://darko.io/posts/linktree-and-linkinbio-clone-with-astro-and-tinacms/) by @\_seiryuu\_

⚠️ [You are using Astro wrong](https://arshx.substack.com/p/you-are-using-astro-wrong-a-survival) by @arshxcx

🚀 [Launching a blog with Astro](https://goulven-clech.dev/2023/launching-blog-astro) by @goulvenclech

📧 @chrispennington released a video on [using RESEND (email API) with Astro](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HyDwVN1AFwY&t=2s).

🎉 [A year working with HTML Web Components](https://hawkticehurst.com/writing/a-year-working-with-html-web-components/)

👀 Community Call Deluxe from launch week is on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VqfzAkI4AkY)

🛠️ Want to move [from Jekyll to Astro](https://jackcarey.co.uk/posts/astro-rewrite/)? Read this post by @jack_jack_jack

🤿 [Deep dive on View Transitions blog post series](https://fryuni.dev/deep-dive/astro-view-transitions/) by @Fryuni

🏎️ New to Astro? Check out this [Astro Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XoIHKO6AkoM) by Brad Traversy

🏁 [Adding feature flags in Astro with Xata (showcasing View Transitions Forms) blog post](https://xata.io/blog/feature-flags-tutorial) by @rishirajjain

### Themes

New Astro themes released this month. Try them out!

- [Docbox](https://docbox-astro.vercel.app/) by @tffarhad
- [ltree theme for Astro](https://github.com/DBozhinovski/astro-theme-ltree)
- [Brutal](https://brutal.elian.codes) has reached over 150 stars by @eliancodes

### Tools & tips

With the release of the Astro Dev Toolbar, we also have Dev Toolbar apps to showcase now!

- [Astro Dev Toolbar app for cloudflare](https://github.com/alexanderniebuhr/astro-cf-dev-toolbar-app-demo)
- [Astro Tunnel app for Dev Toolbar](https://www.npmjs.com/package/astro-tunnel)
- [Lighthouse app for Dev Toolbar](https://github.com/buk0vec/astro-lighthouse/tree/main)
- [Cloudflare Dev Toolbar App (demo/WIP)](https://github.com/alexanderniebuhr/astro-cf-dev-toolbar-app-demo) by @alex
- [Astro Font Picker devtoolbar app](https://github.com/randombits-dev/astro-font-picker) by @randombits.dev
- [Astro Tunnel devtoolbar app](https://www.npmjs.com/package/astro-tunnel) by @shf0811
- [astro-font](https://github.com/rishi-raj-jain/astro-font) by @rishirajjain
- [Clerk + Astro demo](https://github.com/vin-e/clerk-astro-demo) by @vinny_code
- [astro-heroicons](https://github.com/SeanMcP/astro-heroicons) updated by @seanmcp

### Websites

Websites submitted to our Discord `#showcase` channel and featured on community calls this month.

- [playstormgate.com](https://playstormgate.com/) by @robbietron
- [monicaandandy.com](https://monicaandandy.com/) by @joshuaiz
- [flowsstudio.com](https://flowsstudio.com/) by @marvinkr
- [lucasjouin.com](https://lucasjouin.com/) by @itshaunt
- [ngc.pages.dev](https://ngc.pages.dev/) by @erkan59
- [eldenlord.cskl.pl](https://eldenlord.cskl.pl/) by @konrad_32301
- [cskl.pl](https://cskl.pl/) by @konrad_32301
- [salam.app](https://salam.app/) by @golam71
- [ltree.darko.io](https://ltree.darko.io/) by @_seiryuu_
- [birksovskiy.vercel.app](https://birksovskiy.vercel.app/) by @birksovskiy
- [tomgraafmans.com](https://tomgraafmans.com/) by @varvino
- [erfianugrah.com](https://www.erfianugrah.com/) by @stoicopa
- [hamza127.vercel.app](https://hamza127.vercel.app/) by @hamza12700
- [app.malachidaily.com](https://app.malachidaily.com/) by @cameronpak
- [sayings.cc](https://sayings.cc/) by @k16e.co
- [new.aroxbilling.com](https://new.aroxbilling.com/) by @toxin141
- [florian-lefebvre.dev](https://florian-lefebvre.dev/) by @florian_lefebvre
- [potatodeveloper.online](https://www.potatodeveloper.online/) by @badh_rush#0730
- [kreativan.dev](https://kreativan.dev/) by @kreativan.
- [astratechz.com](https://astratechz.com/) by @engagepy
- [hookdeck.com](https://hookdeck.com/) by @ernie9316
- [sannajammeh.com](https://sannajammeh.com/) by @chiefkoshi
- [events-3bg.pages.dev](https://events-3bg.pages.dev/demos/) by @martrapp
- [greendream21.github.io](https://greendream21.github.io/) by @lovebee_
- [pagepanda.vercel.app](https://pagepanda.vercel.app/) by @varvino
- [hideoo.dev](https://hideoo.dev/notes) by @hideoo
- [amigosdelretiro.com](https://www.amigosdelretiro.com/) by @suhaylmv
- [caoutchou.vercel.app](https://caoutchou.vercel.app/) by @karel5743
- [agency-git-new-flurium.vercel.app](https://agency-git-new-flurium.vercel.app/) by @koshchei.
- [sahaja.bad.al](https://sahaja.bad.al/) by @theblapse
- [calaisrespire.com](https://calaisrespire.com/) by @.kamalito
- [johnzanussi.com](https://johnzanussi.com/) by @johnzanussi
- [minirampfoundation.org](https://minirampfoundation.org/) by @johnzanussi
- [switchcase.xyz](https://switchcase.xyz/) by @hellohithisme
- [mmbu2023.vercel.app](https://mmbu2023.vercel.app/) by @heunha
- [blog.memos.land](https://blog.memos.land/en/) by @oscarbustos
- [trailbuddy-astro-view-transition-demo.netlify.app](https://trailbuddy-astro-view-transition-demo.netlify.app/) by @ekfuhrmann
- [xn--berlandpost-shb.ch](https://xn--berlandpost-shb.ch/) by @meintest_26190
- [caiodeveloper.ca](https://www.caiodeveloper.ca/) by @caiomarcellus
- [offeringinspiration.com](https://offeringinspiration.com/Crafts/) by @randombits.dev
- [lalospirits.com](https://lalospirits.com/) by @bigskillet0521
- [clerk-astro-demo](https://github.com/vin-e/clerk-astro-demo) by @vinny_code
- [belief.gg](https://belief.gg/) by @t1c.dev
- [grafoma.se](https://grafoma.se/) by @.hydde

### Starlight in the wild

Take a peek at the new Starlight sites that we discovered this month.

- [Svelte Tweakpane UI](https://kitschpatrol.com/svelte-tweakpane-ui)
- [New Horizons](https://nh.outerwildsmods.com/)
- [Spotlight](https://spotlightjs.com/)
- [secco](https://secco.lekoarts.de/)
- [Astro Docs](https://docs.astro.build/)
- [Ratatui](https://ratatui.rs/)
- [Chamaeleon](https://chamaeleon-docs.vercel.app)
- [Sarah's Starlight Blog](https://rainsberger.ca/)
- [Signals.dart](https://rodydavis.github.io/signals.dart/)
- [Dusa](https://dusa.rocks/docs/)
- [csmos](https://csmos.space/)
- [SiteOne](https://crawler.siteone.io/)
- [Mr. Robøt](https://docs.mrrobot.app/)
- [Progressively](https://progressively.app/)
- [TACO project](https://taco-api.netlify.app/about/)
- [Origami for Everyone](https://origami-for-everyone.ft.com/)

Commit message:

update content section
Co-authored-by: Sarah Rainsberger <sarah@rainsberger.ca>

src/content/blog/whats-new-december-2023.mdx, after:

---
title: "What's new in Astro - December 2023"
description: "December: last month of the year, a time to reflect on all the amazing things we've shipped, including Astro 4.0!"
publishDate: "December 31, 2023"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-shared.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-december-2023/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---

## Releases

Just in time for the end of the year, we released Astro 4.0!

- [Astro 4.0](https://github.com/withastro/astro/releases/tag/astro%404.0.0)
- [Starlight 0.15](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.15.0)

## Docs

The Astro Documentation is now running on Starlight!

We have also officially launched [Astro Docs Docs (AD²)](https://contribute.docs.astro.build) to help you contribute to docs! You'll find all kinds of information whether you're making your first open-source PR or a seasoned member of Team Docs.

Our weekly Discord call “Talking and Doc’ing” is a chance for you to watch Team Docs work in public, jump in a codespace, and contribute to the docs. This month’s topics included:

- Building a new header component for our integrations pages
- Establishing a community Glossary project
- Discussing how to write/standardize Changelog messages
- Adding a mini-showcase with links to themes using each CMS on our CMS guide pages
- Updating our integration docs to include MDX components and Expressive Code

## Community

### Community Awards November

- 🌟 $250 awarded to Atharva for significant contributions to Astro Docs and active community involvement.
- 🥳 $250 awarded to McFlyPartages for translating a significant portion of the Astro Docs into French.
- 🎉 $250 awarded to Hippo for exceptional work releasing, maintaining, and providing support for Expressive Code.
- 🍾 $250 awarded to Eva Decker for actively supporting the Astro Community on Discord.
- 🎊 $250 awarded to Jumper for being a super positive, welcoming and supportive presence in the Astro Discord.
- 🎁 $250 awarded to Happydev for significant work on the Astro Core code base.

Check them out or learn more about the Community Awards on [our community website](https://community.astro.build).

## Showcase

### Content

🚉  See how a full site migration went in [Nuxt 2 to Astro 3 Replatforming – from Setup to Production](https://stevenwoodson.com/blog/replatforming-from-nuxtjs-2-to-astro/) by @stevenwoodson

🧑‍🍳 Follow the recipe for [Quick-and-useful: A DIY, self-hosted Linktree and Linkinbio clone with Astro and TinaCMS](https://darko.io/posts/linktree-and-linkinbio-clone-with-astro-and-tinacms/) by @\_seiryuu\_

⚠️ Get some tips, because maybe [You are using Astro wrong](https://arshx.substack.com/p/you-are-using-astro-wrong-a-survival) by @arshxcx

🚀 Welcoming a new astronaut to the spaceship! A great article to send to your Astro-curious friends: [Launching a blog with Astro](https://goulven-clech.dev/2023/launching-blog-astro) by @goulvenclech

📧 Learn how to use [using RESEND (email API) with Astro](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HyDwVN1AFwY&t=2s) in a new video by @chrispennington

🎉 Read all about [A year working with HTML Web Components](https://hawkticehurst.com/writing/a-year-working-with-html-web-components/) by @hawkticehurst

👀 Astro's 6-hour Launch Week Community Call Deluxe is on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VqfzAkI4AkY) hosted by @sarah11918 

🛠️ Want to move [from Jekyll to Astro](https://jackcarey.co.uk/posts/astro-rewrite/)? Read this post by @jack_jack_jack

🤿 Take a [Deep dive on View Transitions blog post series](https://fryuni.dev/deep-dive/astro-view-transitions/) by @Fryuni

🏎️ New to Astro? Check out this updated [Astro Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XoIHKO6AkoM) by Brad Traversy

🏁 Define the controlled rollout of your next feature by following [Adding feature flags in Astro with Xata (showcasing View Transitions Forms)](https://xata.io/blog/feature-flags-tutorial) by @rishirajjain

### Themes

New Astro themes released this month. Try them out!

- [Docbox](https://docbox-astro.vercel.app/) by @tffarhad
- [ltree theme for Astro](https://github.com/DBozhinovski/astro-theme-ltree)
- [Brutal](https://brutal.elian.codes) has reached over 150 stars by @eliancodes

### Tools & tips

With the release of the Astro Dev Toolbar, we also have Dev Toolbar apps to showcase now!

- [Astro Dev Toolbar app for cloudflare](https://github.com/alexanderniebuhr/astro-cf-dev-toolbar-app-demo)
- [Astro Tunnel app for Dev Toolbar](https://www.npmjs.com/package/astro-tunnel)
- [Lighthouse app for Dev Toolbar](https://github.com/buk0vec/astro-lighthouse/tree/main)
- [Cloudflare Dev Toolbar App (demo/WIP)](https://github.com/alexanderniebuhr/astro-cf-dev-toolbar-app-demo) by @alex
- [Astro Font Picker devtoolbar app](https://github.com/randombits-dev/astro-font-picker) by @randombits.dev
- [Astro Tunnel devtoolbar app](https://www.npmjs.com/package/astro-tunnel) by @shf0811
- [astro-font](https://github.com/rishi-raj-jain/astro-font) by @rishirajjain
- [Clerk + Astro demo](https://github.com/vin-e/clerk-astro-demo) by @vinny_code
- [astro-heroicons](https://github.com/SeanMcP/astro-heroicons) updated by @seanmcp

### Websites

Websites submitted to our Discord `#showcase` channel and featured on community calls this month.

- [playstormgate.com](https://playstormgate.com/) by @robbietron
- [monicaandandy.com](https://monicaandandy.com/) by @joshuaiz
- [flowsstudio.com](https://flowsstudio.com/) by @marvinkr
- [lucasjouin.com](https://lucasjouin.com/) by @itshaunt
- [ngc.pages.dev](https://ngc.pages.dev/) by @erkan59
- [eldenlord.cskl.pl](https://eldenlord.cskl.pl/) by @konrad_32301
- [cskl.pl](https://cskl.pl/) by @konrad_32301
- [salam.app](https://salam.app/) by @golam71
- [ltree.darko.io](https://ltree.darko.io/) by @_seiryuu_
- [birksovskiy.vercel.app](https://birksovskiy.vercel.app/) by @birksovskiy
- [tomgraafmans.com](https://tomgraafmans.com/) by @varvino
- [erfianugrah.com](https://www.erfianugrah.com/) by @stoicopa
- [hamza127.vercel.app](https://hamza127.vercel.app/) by @hamza12700
- [app.malachidaily.com](https://app.malachidaily.com/) by @cameronpak
- [sayings.cc](https://sayings.cc/) by @k16e.co
- [new.aroxbilling.com](https://new.aroxbilling.com/) by @toxin141
- [florian-lefebvre.dev](https://florian-lefebvre.dev/) by @florian_lefebvre
- [potatodeveloper.online](https://www.potatodeveloper.online/) by @badh_rush#0730
- [kreativan.dev](https://kreativan.dev/) by @kreativan.
- [astratechz.com](https://astratechz.com/) by @engagepy
- [hookdeck.com](https://hookdeck.com/) by @ernie9316
- [sannajammeh.com](https://sannajammeh.com/) by @chiefkoshi
- [events-3bg.pages.dev](https://events-3bg.pages.dev/demos/) by @martrapp
- [greendream21.github.io](https://greendream21.github.io/) by @lovebee_
- [pagepanda.vercel.app](https://pagepanda.vercel.app/) by @varvino
- [hideoo.dev](https://hideoo.dev/notes) by @hideoo
- [amigosdelretiro.com](https://www.amigosdelretiro.com/) by @suhaylmv
- [caoutchou.vercel.app](https://caoutchou.vercel.app/) by @karel5743
- [agency-git-new-flurium.vercel.app](https://agency-git-new-flurium.vercel.app/) by @koshchei.
- [sahaja.bad.al](https://sahaja.bad.al/) by @theblapse
- [calaisrespire.com](https://calaisrespire.com/) by @.kamalito
- [johnzanussi.com](https://johnzanussi.com/) by @johnzanussi
- [minirampfoundation.org](https://minirampfoundation.org/) by @johnzanussi
- [switchcase.xyz](https://switchcase.xyz/) by @hellohithisme
- [mmbu2023.vercel.app](https://mmbu2023.vercel.app/) by @heunha
- [blog.memos.land](https://blog.memos.land/en/) by @oscarbustos
- [trailbuddy-astro-view-transition-demo.netlify.app](https://trailbuddy-astro-view-transition-demo.netlify.app/) by @ekfuhrmann
- [xn--berlandpost-shb.ch](https://xn--berlandpost-shb.ch/) by @meintest_26190
- [caiodeveloper.ca](https://www.caiodeveloper.ca/) by @caiomarcellus
- [offeringinspiration.com](https://offeringinspiration.com/Crafts/) by @randombits.dev
- [lalospirits.com](https://lalospirits.com/) by @bigskillet0521
- [clerk-astro-demo](https://github.com/vin-e/clerk-astro-demo) by @vinny_code
- [belief.gg](https://belief.gg/) by @t1c.dev
- [grafoma.se](https://grafoma.se/) by @.hydde

### Starlight in the wild

Take a peek at the new Starlight sites that we discovered this month.

- [Svelte Tweakpane UI](https://kitschpatrol.com/svelte-tweakpane-ui)
- [New Horizons](https://nh.outerwildsmods.com/)
- [Spotlight](https://spotlightjs.com/)
- [secco](https://secco.lekoarts.de/)
- [Astro Docs](https://docs.astro.build/)
- [Ratatui](https://ratatui.rs/)
- [Chamaeleon](https://chamaeleon-docs.vercel.app)
- [Sarah's Starlight Blog](https://rainsberger.ca/)
- [Signals.dart](https://rodydavis.github.io/signals.dart/)
- [Dusa](https://dusa.rocks/docs/)
- [csmos](https://csmos.space/)
- [SiteOne](https://crawler.siteone.io/)
- [Mr. Robøt](https://docs.mrrobot.app/)
- [Progressively](https://progressively.app/)
- [TACO project](https://taco-api.netlify.app/about/)
- [Origami for Everyone](https://origami-for-everyone.ft.com/)
