src/content/blog/whats-new-october-2023.mdx, before:

---
title: "What's new in Astro - October 2023"
description: "Another busy month in Astro! From Hacktoberfest to releasing Page Partials. Read up on everything that happened this month in the Astro universe."
publishDate: "October 31, 2023"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-october-2023/head.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-october-2023/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---

## Releases

Astro's development keeps marching forward, with several notable releases in October:

- Astro 3.2: This update gives you more control over the browser history stack, enables page navigation with View Transitions, includes a route announcer for screen readers, and integrations can now dynamically add other integrations. Learn more in the [Astro 3.2 announcement](/blog/astro-320/).
- Astro 3.3: This release introduces an experimental `<Picture />` component, enhances syntax highlighting, brings package provenance, and adds various quality-of-life improvements. Learn more in the [Astro 3.3 announcement](/blog/astro-330/).
- Astro 3.4: Introduction Page Partials, along with improvements in image optimization and a first preview of an experimental dev overlay. Learn more in the [Astro 3.4 announcement](/blog/astro-340/).

See the `#announcements` channel in Discord for all releases across the Astro repos, including Starlight, the Astro VS Code extension, compiler, packages, and integrations! Follow [Astro on GitHub](https://github.com/withastro/) for all updates.

## Hacktoberfest

[Hacktober](https://hacktoberfest.com/) is officially over now! Thank you all for your amazing contributions and PRs! Here are some of our statistics:

- 2 Astro core PRs
- 49 Starlight PRs
- 62 Docs PRs

## Docs

We extended the tutorial with some highly requested features!

- [Content Collections](https://docs.astro.build/en/tutorials/add-content-collections/)
- [View Transitions](https://docs.astro.build/en/tutorials/add-view-transitions/)

"Talking and Doc'ing" is our weekly live Discord call where we involve the community as we work on docs projects! Often we jump into a shared Codespace or HackMD document and everyone can participate. This month's activities included:

- Live reviewing and testing the two new mini-tutorials
- Improving our docs PR template and creating a new GitHub action to welcome first-time contributors
- All hands on deck reviewing translation submissions using the Astro Docs checklist to get everyone's `hacktoberfest-accepted` PRs merged

## Community

### Community Awards September

Each month, Astro recognizes contributors from around the community, supported by [Astro's Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/astrodotbuild) funding. Join us in celebrating the following people who made Astro great this month!

- [@lilnasy](https://github.com/lilnasy): $500 for outstanding contributions to the Astro codebase and community ⭐️
- [@itsmatteomanf](https://github.com/itsmatteomanf): $250 for initiative taken translating our docs into Italian 🍾
- [@alexanderniebuhr](https://github.com/alexanderniebuhr): $250 for leadership in the development of the Cloudflare adapter 🎉
- [@HiDeoo](https://github.com/hideoo): $250 for taking ownership in Starlight's maintenance, support, and new features 🥳
- [@OliverSpeir](https://github.com/oliverspeir): $250 for a significant presence and impact in Discord support 🎈

### ViteConf

This month, three Astro Core members presented talks at [ViteConf 2023](https://viteconf.org/23/).

Learn more in our [ViteConf blog post](https://astro.build/blog/viteconf-2023/) and watch [the YouTube playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=veCxKeLl35A&list=PLqGQbXn_GDmkOsHI7-Wrbv1GgAA4tJZhg) of all the talks.

### Content

[Project: U2 Space Baby](https://www.chrsgrrtt.com/u2-space-baby): read about Chris Garrett's companion app for U2’s [residence at the Sphere](https://www.u2.com/splash) and see the [new Space Baby app for U2](https://u2spacebaby.u2.com/) live in action!

[Code Fix: The SIBA Website's Move from Create-React-App to Astro](https://brittanisavery.com/post/move-siba-to-astro): read about converting a legacy CRA project to Astro by Brittani S. Avery

[Translate routes in Astro with Content collection, subpage, optional trailingSlash and base support](https://www.webdesign-sopelnik.de/en/blog/translate-routes-for-astro-content-collections-or-subpages-with-trailingslash-and-base-support/): a guide to translating routes for content collections and subpages by Artur Sopelnik 

[Add comments Section to your Astro blog](https://elazizi.com/posts/add-comments-section-to-your-astro-blog): A guide to adding [Giscus](https://giscus.app/) to your blog for comments powered by GitHub Discussions.

## Showcase

Each week on the Astro Community Call in Discord, we shine the spotlight on projects posted by community members in our `#showcase` channel from the following week. Here's a sample of what we saw this month!

### Tools

- [Darkmatter](https://getdarkmatter.dev/): A CMS-like interface for your Astro content collections (MacOS)
- [Frontmatter CMS](https://frontmatter.codes/):  A Headless CMS right in your code editor - now supports Astro!
- [Search Astro Documentation Raycast Extension](https://www.raycast.com/ElianCodes/search-astro-docs): search Astro docs directly within Raycast
- [Set Up a Static Site With Astro on Kinsta](https://kinsta.com/docs/astro-static-site/): new guide for setting up a static site with Kinsta’s Application or Static Site hosting.

### Themes

- [Catonaut](https://github.com/AminoffZ/catonaut) by @aminoff
- [Astro Supabase Starter](https://github.com/kevinzunigacuellar/astro-supabase) by @kevinzunigacuellar
- [Engineering Blog](https://astro.build/themes/details/engineering-blog/) by @eddyvinck
- [Ovidius](https://ovidius-astro-theme.netlify.app/) by @tomas_ba & @astab

### Websites

- [noobscience.rocks](https://www.noobscience.rocks/) by @noobscience
- [fadhelmurphy.github.io](https://fadhelmurphy.github.io/) by @mamangpro
- [rohitk06.vercel.app](https://rohitk06.vercel.app/) by @rohit06
- [hvlxh.tk](https://www.hvlxh.tk/) by @hitesh_dev
- [astronvim.com](https://astronvim.com/) by @uzaaft
- [minov.studio](https://www.minov.studio/en/) by @suhaylmv
- [linwood.dev](https://www.linwood.dev/) by @codedoctor
- [shamann.dev](https://shamann.dev/) by @sylvhama
- [paualbert.netlify.app](https://paualbert.netlify.app/) by @akond
- [procastinatordev.vercel.app](https://procastinatordev.vercel.app/) by @procastinatordev
- [mcdle.net](https://www.mcdle.net/) by @elitogame
- [decimal.fm](https://www.decimal.fm/) by @chrsgrrtt
- [dev.jeromeabel.net](https://dev.jeromeabel.net/) by @jeromeabel
- [nunogois.com](https://www.nunogois.com/) by @nunogois

### Starlight in the wild

Need inspiration for your documentation site? Here are the new Starlight sites we spotted this month!

- [docs.launchfa.st](https://docs.launchfa.st/documentation)
- [docs.corsace.io](https://docs.corsace.io/en/)
- [certs.msfthub.wiki](https://certs.msfthub.wiki/)
- [aoi.js.org](https://aoi.js.org/)
- [chproxy.org](https://www.chproxy.org/)
- [bunshi.org](https://www.bunshi.org)
- [drops-of-php.hi-folks.dev](https://drops-of-php.hi-folks.dev/)
- [angular-challenges.vercel.app](https://angular-challenges.vercel.app)
- [astro-docs-docs.netlify.app](https://astro-docs-docs.netlify.app/)
- [docs.cataclysmbn.org](https://docs.cataclysmbn.org/en/)
- [reatom.dev](https://www.reatom.dev/)
- [zsh-test-runner-docs.vercel.app](https://zsh-test-runner-docs.vercel.app/)
- [ngxtension.netlify.app](https://ngxtension.netlify.app/)
- [skyscript.js.org](https://skyscript.js.org/)
- [nostalgist.js.org](https://nostalgist.js.org/)
- [reactnativeunistyles.vercel.app](https://reactnativeunistyles.vercel.app/)
- [sibiraj-s.github.io](https://sibiraj-s.github.io/ngx-editor)
- [webmonetization.org](https://[webmonetization.org]/docs/)

Commit message:

add Starlight to releases
Co-authored-by: Chris Swithinbank <swithinbank@gmail.com>

src/content/blog/whats-new-october-2023.mdx, after:

---
title: "What's new in Astro - October 2023"
description: "Another busy month in Astro! From Hacktoberfest to releasing Page Partials. Read up on everything that happened this month in the Astro universe."
publishDate: "October 31, 2023"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-october-2023/head.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-october-2023/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---

## Releases

Astro's development keeps marching forward, with several notable releases in October:

- Astro 3.2: This update gives you more control over the browser history stack, enables page navigation with View Transitions, includes a route announcer for screen readers, and integrations can now dynamically add other integrations. Learn more in the [Astro 3.2 announcement](/blog/astro-320/).
- Astro 3.3: This release introduces an experimental `<Picture />` component, enhances syntax highlighting, brings package provenance, and adds various quality-of-life improvements. Learn more in the [Astro 3.3 announcement](/blog/astro-330/).
- Astro 3.4: Introducing Page Partials, along with improvements in image optimization and a first preview of an experimental dev overlay. Learn more in the [Astro 3.4 announcement](/blog/astro-340/).
- Starlight 0.11: Adds support for customizing Starlight’s UI with component overrides, adding attributes to sidebar links, and improves `<title>` tags. Learn more in the [Starlight 0.11 release notes](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.11.0)

See the `#announcements` channel in Discord for all releases across the Astro repos, including Starlight, the Astro VS Code extension, compiler, packages, and integrations! Follow [Astro on GitHub](https://github.com/withastro/) for all updates.

## Hacktoberfest

[Hacktober](https://hacktoberfest.com/) is officially over now! Thank you all for your amazing contributions and PRs! Here are some of our statistics:

- 2 Astro core PRs
- 49 Starlight PRs
- 62 Docs PRs

## Docs

We extended the tutorial with some highly requested features!

- [Content Collections](https://docs.astro.build/en/tutorials/add-content-collections/)
- [View Transitions](https://docs.astro.build/en/tutorials/add-view-transitions/)

"Talking and Doc'ing" is our weekly live Discord call where we involve the community as we work on docs projects! Often we jump into a shared Codespace or HackMD document and everyone can participate. This month's activities included:

- Live reviewing and testing the two new mini-tutorials
- Improving our docs PR template and creating a new GitHub action to welcome first-time contributors
- All hands on deck reviewing translation submissions using the Astro Docs checklist to get everyone's `hacktoberfest-accepted` PRs merged

## Community

### Community Awards September

Each month, Astro recognizes contributors from around the community, supported by [Astro's Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/astrodotbuild) funding. Join us in celebrating the following people who made Astro great this month!

- [@lilnasy](https://github.com/lilnasy): $500 for outstanding contributions to the Astro codebase and community ⭐️
- [@itsmatteomanf](https://github.com/itsmatteomanf): $250 for initiative taken translating our docs into Italian 🍾
- [@alexanderniebuhr](https://github.com/alexanderniebuhr): $250 for leadership in the development of the Cloudflare adapter 🎉
- [@HiDeoo](https://github.com/hideoo): $250 for taking ownership in Starlight's maintenance, support, and new features 🥳
- [@OliverSpeir](https://github.com/oliverspeir): $250 for a significant presence and impact in Discord support 🎈

### ViteConf

This month, three Astro Core members presented talks at [ViteConf 2023](https://viteconf.org/23/).

Learn more in our [ViteConf blog post](https://astro.build/blog/viteconf-2023/) and watch [the YouTube playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=veCxKeLl35A&list=PLqGQbXn_GDmkOsHI7-Wrbv1GgAA4tJZhg) of all the talks.

### Content

[Project: U2 Space Baby](https://www.chrsgrrtt.com/u2-space-baby): read about Chris Garrett's companion app for U2’s [residence at the Sphere](https://www.u2.com/splash) and see the [new Space Baby app for U2](https://u2spacebaby.u2.com/) live in action!

[Code Fix: The SIBA Website's Move from Create-React-App to Astro](https://brittanisavery.com/post/move-siba-to-astro): read about converting a legacy CRA project to Astro by Brittani S. Avery

[Translate routes in Astro with Content collection, subpage, optional trailingSlash and base support](https://www.webdesign-sopelnik.de/en/blog/translate-routes-for-astro-content-collections-or-subpages-with-trailingslash-and-base-support/): a guide to translating routes for content collections and subpages by Artur Sopelnik 

[Add comments Section to your Astro blog](https://elazizi.com/posts/add-comments-section-to-your-astro-blog): A guide to adding [Giscus](https://giscus.app/) to your blog for comments powered by GitHub Discussions.

## Showcase

Each week on the Astro Community Call in Discord, we shine the spotlight on projects posted by community members in our `#showcase` channel from the following week. Here's a sample of what we saw this month!

### Tools

- [Darkmatter](https://getdarkmatter.dev/): A CMS-like interface for your Astro content collections (MacOS)
- [Frontmatter CMS](https://frontmatter.codes/):  A Headless CMS right in your code editor - now supports Astro!
- [Search Astro Documentation Raycast Extension](https://www.raycast.com/ElianCodes/search-astro-docs): search Astro docs directly within Raycast
- [Set Up a Static Site With Astro on Kinsta](https://kinsta.com/docs/astro-static-site/): new guide for setting up a static site with Kinsta’s Application or Static Site hosting.

### Themes

- [Catonaut](https://github.com/AminoffZ/catonaut) by @aminoff
- [Astro Supabase Starter](https://github.com/kevinzunigacuellar/astro-supabase) by @kevinzunigacuellar
- [Engineering Blog](https://astro.build/themes/details/engineering-blog/) by @eddyvinck
- [Ovidius](https://ovidius-astro-theme.netlify.app/) by @tomas_ba & @astab

### Websites

- [noobscience.rocks](https://www.noobscience.rocks/) by @noobscience
- [fadhelmurphy.github.io](https://fadhelmurphy.github.io/) by @mamangpro
- [rohitk06.vercel.app](https://rohitk06.vercel.app/) by @rohit06
- [hvlxh.tk](https://www.hvlxh.tk/) by @hitesh_dev
- [astronvim.com](https://astronvim.com/) by @uzaaft
- [minov.studio](https://www.minov.studio/en/) by @suhaylmv
- [linwood.dev](https://www.linwood.dev/) by @codedoctor
- [shamann.dev](https://shamann.dev/) by @sylvhama
- [paualbert.netlify.app](https://paualbert.netlify.app/) by @akond
- [procastinatordev.vercel.app](https://procastinatordev.vercel.app/) by @procastinatordev
- [mcdle.net](https://www.mcdle.net/) by @elitogame
- [decimal.fm](https://www.decimal.fm/) by @chrsgrrtt
- [dev.jeromeabel.net](https://dev.jeromeabel.net/) by @jeromeabel
- [nunogois.com](https://www.nunogois.com/) by @nunogois

### Starlight in the wild

Need inspiration for your documentation site? Here are the new Starlight sites we spotted this month!

- [docs.launchfa.st](https://docs.launchfa.st/documentation)
- [docs.corsace.io](https://docs.corsace.io/en/)
- [certs.msfthub.wiki](https://certs.msfthub.wiki/)
- [aoi.js.org](https://aoi.js.org/)
- [chproxy.org](https://www.chproxy.org/)
- [bunshi.org](https://www.bunshi.org)
- [drops-of-php.hi-folks.dev](https://drops-of-php.hi-folks.dev/)
- [angular-challenges.vercel.app](https://angular-challenges.vercel.app)
- [astro-docs-docs.netlify.app](https://astro-docs-docs.netlify.app/)
- [docs.cataclysmbn.org](https://docs.cataclysmbn.org/en/)
- [reatom.dev](https://www.reatom.dev/)
- [zsh-test-runner-docs.vercel.app](https://zsh-test-runner-docs.vercel.app/)
- [ngxtension.netlify.app](https://ngxtension.netlify.app/)
- [skyscript.js.org](https://skyscript.js.org/)
- [nostalgist.js.org](https://nostalgist.js.org/)
- [reactnativeunistyles.vercel.app](https://reactnativeunistyles.vercel.app/)
- [sibiraj-s.github.io](https://sibiraj-s.github.io/ngx-editor)
- [webmonetization.org](https://[webmonetization.org]/docs/)
