src/pages/privacy.mdx, before:

---
title: Privacy Policy
updated_date: Sep 13, 2022
description: Astro's privacy policy
header: |
  In addition to this Privacy Policy, Astro also has [Terms of Service](/terms).
---

import Layout from '../layouts/Legal.astro'
import Panel from '../components/Panel.astro'

<Layout title="Privacy Policy" description="Astro's privacy policy" updated_date="Sep 13, 2022">

*In addition to this Privacy Policy, Astro also has [Terms of Service](/terms).*

The Astro Privacy Policy describes the privacy practices of Astro website and services. The laws of California and the laws of the United States apply. If you are a resident of EU/EEA, the European Commission-approved Standard Contractual Clauses (also referred to as Model Contracts) apply to Trans-Atlantic data transfers.

### General Information

We collect very limited personally identifiable information described below (the “data”) from [GitHub](https://help.github.com/articles/github-privacy-policy/) and of those who communicate with us directly via e-mail, aggregate information on what pages consumers access or visit, and information volunteered by the consumer (such as survey information and/or site registrations). The information we collect is used to provide our services, and to improve the quality of our services, and is not shared with or sold to other organizations for commercial purposes, except to provide products or services you've requested when we have your permission, or under the following circumstances:

- It is necessary to share information in order to investigate, prevent, or take action regarding illegal activities, suspected fraud, situations involving potential threats to the physical safety of any person, violations of [Terms of Service](/terms), or as otherwise required by law.
- We transfer information about you if Astro is acquired by or merged with another company. In this event, Astro will notify you before information about you is transferred and becomes subject to a different privacy policy.

### Information Gathering and Usage

Astro uses collected information for the following general purposes: products and services provision, billing, identification and authentication through GitHub, Bitbucket, services improvement, contact, and research. Astro uses personally identifiable information on billing address and/or payment information only for the sole purpose of payment processing for Astro services.

Payment processing services enable us to process payments by credit card, bank transfer or other means. To ensure greater security, we share only the information necessary to execute the transaction with the financial intermediaries handling the transaction. Some of these services may also enable the sending of timed messages to our customer, such as emails containing invoices or notifications concerning the payment.

### Cookies

A cookie is a small amount of data, which often includes an anonymous unique identifier, which is sent to your browser from a web site's computers and stored on your computer's hard drive.

You can control how websites use cookies by configuring the privacy settings within your browser. Note that if you disable cookies entirely, Astro websites and applications may not function properly.

### Data Storage

Astro uses third-party vendors and hosting partners to provide the necessary hardware, software, networking, storage, and related technology required to run Astro. Astro’s third-party vendors and hosting partners adhere to the European Commission-approved Standard Contractual Clauses (also referred to as Model Contracts).

### Data Retention and Deletion

Data is kept for the time necessary to provide the products or services requested by the customer. We keep some of your personal data for as long as you are a user of the Astro Service. When you delete your account, we will delete your personal data and it will expire from backups; unless we are legally allowed or required to maintain certain personal data, including situations under the applicable laws to reveal personal data upon reasonable request of public authorities.

### Rights of Data Subjects

Data subject (customer) can always request Astro to allow access and correction, supplement or update of data. Subject to a reasonable request of a data subject, Astro will remove data pertaining to a data subject unless applicable laws impose a duty to retain data for certain time or identification, location and deletion of data imposes a disproportionate financial burden upon Astro. Any requests for access, correction or deletion of data should be directed to Astro by sending an email to [privacy@astro.build](mailto:privacy@astro.build).

You may be aware that a European Union law, called the General Data Protection Regulation or "GDPR" gives certain rights to individuals in relation to their personal data. In order to enable you to exercise these rights with ease in relation to how Astro uses your personal data, we provide you with access to the following settings via your Account Settings page:

- Remove Account - allows you to delete your account and associated personal data; and,
- Notifications - allows you to manage communications you receive from Astro.

As a user you may also request a copy of your data and that your data be updated, deleted, restricted or moved to another organization.

### We may share your information with

We want to process as little personal information as possible when you use our website. That's why we've chosen Fathom Analytics for our website analytics, which doesn't use cookies and complies with the GDPR, ePrivacy (including PECR), COPPA and CCPA. Using this privacy-friendly website analytics software, your IP address is only briefly processed, and we (running this website) have no way of identifying you. As per the CCPA, your personal information is de-identified. You can read more about this on Fathom Analytics' website.

The purpose of us using this software is to understand our website traffic in the most privacy-friendly way possible so that we can continually improve our website and business. The lawful basis as per the GDPR is "Article 6(1)(f); where our legitimate interests are to improve our website and business continually." As per the explanation, no personal data is stored over time.

### Security

We understand that the security of your data is important. We provide reasonable administrative, technical, and physical security controls to protect your personal information from unauthorized access, disclosure, modification, or unauthorized destruction. However, despite our efforts, no security controls are 100% effective and Astro cannot ensure or warrant the security of your data.

### Links

We may display content that links to third-party websites. We cannot control or be held responsible for third parties’ privacy practices and content. If you click on a third-party advertisement or link, please understand that you are leaving the Astro website and any personal data you provide will not be covered by this Policy. Please read their privacy policies to find out how they collect and process your personal data.

### Changes

Astro may periodically update this policy. We encourage you to periodically review our website for the latest information on our privacy practices.

### Questions

Thank you for reading our Privacy Policy. If you have any questions about this Policy, please contact our Data Protection Officer by emailing [privacy@astro.build](mailto:privacy@astro.build).
</Layout>

Commit message:

Mention Feedback Fish in privacy policy

src/pages/privacy.mdx, after:

---
title: Privacy Policy
updated_date: Sep 13, 2022
description: Astro's privacy policy
header: |
  In addition to this Privacy Policy, Astro also has [Terms of Service](/terms).
---

import Layout from '../layouts/Legal.astro'
import Panel from '../components/Panel.astro'

<Layout title="Privacy Policy" description="Astro's privacy policy" updated_date="Sep 13, 2022">

*In addition to this Privacy Policy, Astro also has [Terms of Service](/terms).*

The Astro Privacy Policy describes the privacy practices of Astro website and services. The laws of California and the laws of the United States apply. If you are a resident of EU/EEA, the European Commission-approved Standard Contractual Clauses (also referred to as Model Contracts) apply to Trans-Atlantic data transfers.

### General Information

We collect very limited personally identifiable information described below (the “data”) from [GitHub](https://help.github.com/articles/github-privacy-policy/) and of those who communicate with us directly via e-mail, aggregate information on what pages consumers access or visit, and information volunteered by the consumer (such as survey information and/or site registrations). The information we collect is used to provide our services, and to improve the quality of our services, and is not shared with or sold to other organizations for commercial purposes, except to provide products or services you've requested when we have your permission, or under the following circumstances:

- It is necessary to share information in order to investigate, prevent, or take action regarding illegal activities, suspected fraud, situations involving potential threats to the physical safety of any person, violations of [Terms of Service](/terms), or as otherwise required by law.
- We transfer information about you if Astro is acquired by or merged with another company. In this event, Astro will notify you before information about you is transferred and becomes subject to a different privacy policy.

### Information Gathering and Usage

Astro uses collected information for the following general purposes: products and services provision, billing, identification and authentication through GitHub, Bitbucket, services improvement, contact, and research. Astro uses personally identifiable information on billing address and/or payment information only for the sole purpose of payment processing for Astro services.

Payment processing services enable us to process payments by credit card, bank transfer or other means. To ensure greater security, we share only the information necessary to execute the transaction with the financial intermediaries handling the transaction. Some of these services may also enable the sending of timed messages to our customer, such as emails containing invoices or notifications concerning the payment.

### Cookies

A cookie is a small amount of data, which often includes an anonymous unique identifier, which is sent to your browser from a web site's computers and stored on your computer's hard drive.

You can control how websites use cookies by configuring the privacy settings within your browser. Note that if you disable cookies entirely, Astro websites and applications may not function properly.

### Data Storage

Astro uses third-party vendors and hosting partners to provide the necessary hardware, software, networking, storage, and related technology required to run Astro. Astro’s third-party vendors and hosting partners adhere to the European Commission-approved Standard Contractual Clauses (also referred to as Model Contracts).

### Data Retention and Deletion

Data is kept for the time necessary to provide the products or services requested by the customer. We keep some of your personal data for as long as you are a user of the Astro Service. When you delete your account, we will delete your personal data and it will expire from backups; unless we are legally allowed or required to maintain certain personal data, including situations under the applicable laws to reveal personal data upon reasonable request of public authorities.

### Rights of Data Subjects

Data subject (customer) can always request Astro to allow access and correction, supplement or update of data. Subject to a reasonable request of a data subject, Astro will remove data pertaining to a data subject unless applicable laws impose a duty to retain data for certain time or identification, location and deletion of data imposes a disproportionate financial burden upon Astro. Any requests for access, correction or deletion of data should be directed to Astro by sending an email to [privacy@astro.build](mailto:privacy@astro.build).

You may be aware that a European Union law, called the General Data Protection Regulation or "GDPR" gives certain rights to individuals in relation to their personal data. In order to enable you to exercise these rights with ease in relation to how Astro uses your personal data, we provide you with access to the following settings via your Account Settings page:

- Remove Account - allows you to delete your account and associated personal data; and,
- Notifications - allows you to manage communications you receive from Astro.

As a user you may also request a copy of your data and that your data be updated, deleted, restricted or moved to another organization.

### We may share your information with

We want to process as little personal information as possible when you use our website. That's why we've chosen Fathom Analytics for our website analytics, which doesn't use cookies and complies with the GDPR, ePrivacy (including PECR), COPPA and CCPA. Using this privacy-friendly website analytics software, your IP address is only briefly processed, and we (running this website) have no way of identifying you. As per the CCPA, your personal information is de-identified. You can read more about this on Fathom Analytics' website.

The purpose of us using this software is to understand our website traffic in the most privacy-friendly way possible so that we can continually improve our website and business. The lawful basis as per the GDPR is "Article 6(1)(f); where our legitimate interests are to improve our website and business continually." As per the explanation, no personal data is stored over time.

When you choose to submit feedback on the docs site, we store your message using the [Feedback Fish](https://feedback.fish/) service. This enables us to gather helpful feedback and improve our documentation.

### Security

We understand that the security of your data is important. We provide reasonable administrative, technical, and physical security controls to protect your personal information from unauthorized access, disclosure, modification, or unauthorized destruction. However, despite our efforts, no security controls are 100% effective and Astro cannot ensure or warrant the security of your data.

### Links

We may display content that links to third-party websites. We cannot control or be held responsible for third parties’ privacy practices and content. If you click on a third-party advertisement or link, please understand that you are leaving the Astro website and any personal data you provide will not be covered by this Policy. Please read their privacy policies to find out how they collect and process your personal data.

### Changes

Astro may periodically update this policy. We encourage you to periodically review our website for the latest information on our privacy practices.

### Questions

Thank you for reading our Privacy Policy. If you have any questions about this Policy, please contact our Data Protection Officer by emailing [privacy@astro.build](mailto:privacy@astro.build).
</Layout>
